BOURBLE | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOURBON AND BRANCH | 2 ounces bourbon 4 ounces bottled water | Pour the bourbon and water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BOURBON BLACK HAWK | 2 ounces bourbon 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce sloe gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon and sloe gin. Stir and strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
BOURBON BLACK HAWK #2 | 2 ounces bourbon 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin sugar 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, sloe gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
BOURBON COBBLER I | 11⁄2 teaspoons superfine 1 maraschino cherry sugar 1 orange slice 3 ounces club soda 1 lemon slice Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces blended bourbon | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost full. Add the bourbon and stir well. Garnish with the cherry and orange and lemon slices.
BOURBON COBBLER II | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces bourbon  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 strawberry 1 lime wedge 1 pineapple wedge | In a large wine glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice. Add the bourbon. Garnish with the strawberry and the lime and pineapple wedges.
BOURBON COOLER | 2 ounces bourbon 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the bourbon and the soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
BOURBON COUNTY COWBOY | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOURBON CRUSTA | 1 tablespoon superfine sugar 1 lemon wedge Peel of 1 orange, cut into 2 teaspoons maraschino a spiral liqueur Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a wine goblet with the lemon wedge and dip the glass into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lemon wedge. Place the orange peel spiral into the  11⁄2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | goblet and drape one end over the rim of the glass. Fill the glass with crushed ice. In a shaker halffilled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the goblet.
BOURBON DAISY | 2 ounces bourbon 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, lemon juice, grenadine, and sugar. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
BOURBON FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 2 ounces bourbon 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry  2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the bourbon. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
BOURBON FLIP | 2 ounces bourbon 1 egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BOURBON MILK PUNCH | 2 ounces bourbon 3 ounces half-and-half 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄4 teaspoon vanilla extract 1⁄4 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, half-and-half, sugar, and vanilla extract. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BOURBON MILK PUNCH #2 | 1 teaspoon superfine 5 ounces milk sugar 1⁄4 teaspoon ground 2 ounces bourbon cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the bourbon by stirring with a teaspoon. Add 6 ice cubes and the milk. Stir well. Garnish with the cinnamon.
BOURBON MILK PUNCH #3 | 2 ounces bourbon 5 ounces milk 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 1⁄4 teaspoon grated cacao nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, crème de cacao, and milk. Shake well. Pour into a highball glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BOURBON OLD-FASHIONED | 3 dashes bitters 3 ounces bourbon 1 teaspoon water 1 orange slice 1 sugar cube 1 maraschino cherry | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the bitters and water into the sugar cube, using the back of a teaspoon. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes and add the bourbon. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry. Serve with a swizzle stick.
BOURBON SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port  sugar 2 teaspoons water 11⁄2 ounces bourbon Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces club soda 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and bourbon. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the port on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and dust with the nutmeg and cinnamon.
BOURBON SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 2 ounces bourbon 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and bourbon. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BOURBON SOUR | 2 ounces bourbon 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a whiskey sour glass; garnish with the orange slice and cherry.
BOURBON SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces bourbon | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, bourbon, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice. Stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
DIXIE DEW | 11⁄2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon white crème triple sec de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DIXIE STINGER | 3 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 teaspoon Southern 1⁄2 ounce white crème de Comfort menthe | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FANCY BOURBON | 2 ounces bourbon 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 lemon twist triple sec 1⁄4 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, Cointreau, sugar, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
FOX AND HOUNDS | 11⁄2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce Pernod sugar 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JILLIONAIRE | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 egg white triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well and strain into a cocktail glass.
JOHN COLLINS | 2 ounces bourbon 3 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice  sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
J. R.’S GODCHILD | 2 ounces bourbon 1 ounce milk 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, amaretto, and milk. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass.
J. R.’S GODFATHER | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir to mix the flavors.
J. R.’S REVENGE | 3 ounces bourbon 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
KENTUCKY B AND B | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine | Pour the bourbon and Bénédictine into a brandy snifter.
KENTUCKY COLONEL | 3 ounces bourbon 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the bourbon and Bénédictine. Shake and strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
MIDNIGHT COWBOY | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream 1 ounce dark rum | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MINT JULEP | Juleps, although not mint juleps, have been with us for far longer than Kentucky has, probably since the seventeenth century. The word was also used by pharmacists to describe a sweet-tasting liquid that disguised the taste of an unpleasant medicine. I imagine that the first mint juleps could easily have been made to mask the flavor of a rough whiskey before the bourbon distillers, as we know them, had honed their craft. Unlike most drinks, the mint julep has a tra- ditional serving day: the same as the Kentucky Derby. Every year on the first Saturday in May,  the mint julep is served nationwide at parties cel- ebrating the great race. There is some controversy, however, over whether or not to muddle the mint. Any drink that is served every year on the same day and can provoke a fight must be a classic. The drink should really be served in a special sil- ver julep cup, which is shaped like a small tank- ard, but a highball or collins glass will do just fine, as long as the drink is served with style. Although someone is bound to argue with me, I contend that traditionally the mint is used only for bouquet, so make sure the leaves spill over the top of the glass, and use short straws so the drinker has to really bury his or her nose in the drink. 1 teaspoon superfine sug- 6 fresh mint sprigs, ar Crushed ice 3 ounces bourbon stems cut short immediately before use In a silver julep cup, highball glass, or collins glass, dissolve the sugar in a few drops of water. Almost | fill the glass with crushed ice. Add the bourbon and some short straws. Garnish with the sprigs of mint on top.
MINT JULEP #2 | 6 fresh mint sprigs Crushed ice 1 teaspoon superfine 3 ounces bourbon sugar | Lightly muddle 4 of the mint sprigs with the sugar and a few drops of water in the bottom of the glass. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice. Add the bourbon and some short straws. Garnish with the remaining 2 mint sprigs.
MINT JULEP #3 | 6 fresh mint sprigs Crushed ice 1 teaspoon superfine 3 ounces bourbon sugar Lightly muddle 4 of the mint sprigs with the sugar and a few drops of water in the bottom of the glass. Now smear the leaves all around the inside of the | glass to coat it with the mixture; discard the leaves. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice. Add the bourbon and some short straws. Garnish with the remaining 2 mint sprigs.
NARRAGANSETT | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 teaspoon anisette 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, vermouth, and anisette. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
NEVINS | 2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PENDENNIS | 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces bourbon sugar 1 lemon slice Crushed ice | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in a few drops of water. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice. Add the bourbon. Stir well and garnish with the lemon slice.
RAGGED COMPANY | 2 ounces bourbon 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon Bénédictine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, vermouth, Bénédictine, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
REBEL YELL | 2 ounces bourbon 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 egg white triple sec 1 orange slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bourbon, Cointreau, lemon juice, and egg white. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the orange slice.
SAZERAC | 1 teaspoon Ricard 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 2 dashes Peychaud bitters 1 teaspoon water 2 ounces bourbon 1 lemon twist | Pour the Ricard into an old-fashioned glass and swirl it around to coat the glass; discard any excess. Place the sugar, Peychaud bitters, and water into the glass and muddle thoroughly with the back of a teaspoon. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes. Pour the bourbon over the ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
 BRANDY | “The thoroughbred in a field of nags” would ad- equately describe a fine brandy compared to most other liquors. In the realm of cocktails, brandy is found in such classics as the Sidecar, the Brandy Al- exander, and the Stringer. There is much controversy about what constitutes a brandy. I should tell you that the recipes in this chapter use as their base the gen- erally accepted brandy made from fermented wine. Drinks made from the much-debated fruit brandies appear in the Cordials chapter (page 268). There are many tales told about the “invention” of brandy, and its true origin may never be known. Undoubtedly, though, it is the French who have re- fined and perfected the art of making this spirit.  One story tells of brandy being brought from Italy in 1533 to help celebrate the marriage of Cath- erine de Médicis. Mention of brandy from the Ar- magnac region of France, however, dates to 1411. In my mind, when the origin of anything is so unsure, credit should be given to the best story. The best story about the development of brandy in- volves a Dutchman. This particular Dutchman, who was a shipmaster in the sixteenth century, was in the business of transporting wine from France to Holland. Being a wily sort, the man thought that by removing most of the water from the wine by means of distillation, he could concentrate it and thus ship much more wine per trip. He would make his fortune by adding the water back to the concentrate when it arrived in Holland. Unfortunately for the poor soul, his friends tried the concentrated wine before he added the water to it and decided that to adulterate it would be a sin. They called it brandewijn, “burned wine,” and through the years the name became shortened to brandy. HOW TO SERVE BRANDY A practice I abhor is that of warming brandy over a flame before serving it. This ritual actually burns off alcohol and contributes an artificially intense bouquet. Good brandy should be served at room temperature, in decent measure, in a snifter, prefer- ably made from quality crystal. The snifter should be held with the stem slotted between two fingers of the upturned palm, which cups the bottom of the glass. In this way the heat of the hand will warm the brandy, the aroma will gently lift from the sur- face, and the vapors will be captured at the lip of the glass. When drinking brandy, one’s nose or mouth should never be too far from the rim of the glass, lest that delectable mist be wasted on the fairies. PRODUCTION As described above, grape brandy is the product of the distillation of wine. It is made in just about every country that produces wine, so rules and reg- ulations about its production differ from place to place. Both pot stills and continuous stills can be used, although the pot still produces the better, al- beit more expensive, distillation. Sometimes brandy from both methods is “married” to produce a medium-price blend. The word brandy does not tell you where the product is from. Other more spe- cific names are often applied, such as Cognac and Armagnac, to describe the place of origin. These premium brandies are often governed by strict standards of production (see page 40). FRUIT BRANDY There are many different types of fruit brandies and exacting definitions can be tedious. I will endeavor to be brief. The biggest controversy concerns products such as apricot brandy, which, for some reason, caused so much of an uproar with the U.S. legal authorities that they created a special category for them. These brandies must be made with a wine-brandy base, be over 70° proof, and contain a specified amount of sugar. In other countries, sweetened spirits made from fruits can be called brandies without contain- ing any wine brandy at all. When you buy fruit brandies, you may want to check the label; if there is no mention of the word brandy, then it probably is a fruit liqueur, but not necessarily an inferior product. It is all a matter of taste and government regulations. Eau-de-vie, a French phrase that means, literally, “water of life,” generally refers to a distillation of any fruit other than the grape that has an alcohol content of around 100° proof. This spirit is almost always colorless, since it is either bottled immedi- ately after distillation, or stored in glass-lined casks or earthenware containers. This method of storage retains the intense fruit flavor and maintains the high alcohol content. Applejack, strictly an American product, was known in Prohibition times as “Jersey Lightning.” It is made from fermented apple cider, must be aged for a minimum of two years, and can be bottled as is or blended with neutral grain spirits. Calvados, the French equivalent of applejack, is distilled from good-quality apple cider fermented for a minimum of one month (by which time all of the sugar has gone) and then aged, often as long as 20 to 40 years. Other well-known fruit brandies and eaux-de- vie are kirsch or kirschwasser, made from cherries, Poire William from pears, Slivovitz from plums, framboise from raspberries, and fraise from straw- berries. BRANDY-PRODUCING COUNTRIES AND REGIONS Good brandies are produced in France, Spain, Greece, Germany, Italy, Australia, Portugal, Peru, Israel, Yugoslavia, and South Africa. In fact, one could safely say that wherever grapes are grown, wine and brandy are made. COGNAC Only brandy made from grapes grown in the de- limited district of France in the Charente know as Cognac may be named Cognac. The boundaries of this area were set down in 1909 and have since been subdivided into seven divisions of varying qual- ity. In order of preference they are: Grande Cham- pagne, Petite Champagne, Borderies, Fins Bois, Bons Bois, Bois Ordinaries, and Bois à Terroir. All Cognac is made from wine that is fermented from whole grapes—skins, seeds, and all. The res- ulting wine is double-distilled in pot stills, and the heart of the second distillation is destined to be- come Cognac. It is aged in new oak casks for one year, and then is transferred to used oak casks, lest it take on too much tannin from the virgin oak. (Tannin is what helps color spirits and imparts that dry, puckery feeling in your mouth.) Labels on Cognac bottles use special abbrevi- ations that are designed to denote the quality of the spirit inside. Here is how it works: V = Very S = Special O = Old P = Pale F = Fine X = Extra C = Cognac E = Especial When we put the letters together, however, they take on additional meanings. V.O. and V.S.O.P. both mean that the Cognac has been aged for at least four and a half years. V.S.O.P., however, is usually aged for at least eight years. If the label is printed with the words Extra, Napoléon, or Vieille Réserve, the French government warrants that the Cognac in that bottle has been aged for a minimum of five and a half years, not, as one may be tempted to believe, since the Battle of Waterloo. Stars found on Cognac labels came from a su- perstitious shipper of brandy who put a star on his bottles to pay homage to a comet that appeared in 1811, a great year for Cognac. These days, French law states that three-star Cognac, the youngest, must be aged for a minimum of 18 months. ARMAGNAC This spirit, distilled mainly in Gascony in the south- west of France, is recognized as being the only brandy to come close to the quality of Cognac. Indeed, some connoisseurs actually prefer the more pungent taste of Armagnac. It is distilled once, in a continuous copper still that was invented in the Armagnac region in the nineteenth century. Fre- quently, small farmers use a portable still, which is wheeled from farm to farm. It is then aged in black oak, which gives tannin and deep color to the brandy. The aging and labeling of Armagnac is done in much the same way as Cognac. The region known as Armagnac is divided into three areas (in order of descending quality): Bas- Armagnac, Ténarèze, and Haut-Armagnac. Any bottle bearing only the word Armagnac, without mention of any of the regions, is a blend of two or all three regions. AMERICAN BRANDY Brandy was first made in the New World by the Spanish missions in California, and California is still the major producer in the United States. By law, American brandy must be aged in wood, usu- ally oak, for a minimum of two years, although it may be made in either a pot still or the more eco- nomical continuous still. American brandy is gen- erally fruitier and somewhat lighter than European brandies. GREEK BRANDY Called koniak in Greece (pretty sneaky), most Greek brandy is distilled in Piraeus and Cyprus. The grapes used give this brandy a distinctive fla- vor, which usually is then sweetened with caramel. SPANISH BRANDY | This rich, dark, sweet brandy is produced mainly in Jerez and Valdepeñas. Although some are distilled from sherry, most Spanish brandies are made from other Spanish wines.
ALL DRESSED UP LIKE A DOG’S | DINNER 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounces sweet vermouth 1 ounce applejack | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
AMERICAN BEAUTY | 1 ounce brandy 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄4 teaspoon white crème 1⁄2 ounce tawny port de menthe | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, vermouth, crème de menthe, orange juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Pouring slowly and carefully, float the port on top.
BALTIMORE BRACER | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 egg white 1 ounce anisette | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BENGAL | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce maraschino 2 dashes bitters liqueur 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BETSY ROSS 1 | Crushed ice 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 2 ounces brandy triple sec  11⁄2 ounces tawny port | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BETWEEN THE SHEETS | 1 ounce brandy 1 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK BALTIMORE | 2 ounces brandy 1 egg white 1 ounce black Sambuca (Opal Nera) | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK PAGODA | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth triple sec 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOSOM CARESSER | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 11⁄2 ounces brandy triple sec 1 ounce Madeira | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BRANDIED EGG SOUR | 1 egg 2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, crack the egg and add the rest of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BRANDY AND SODA | 2 ounces brandy 5 ounces club soda | Pour the brandy and club soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
BRANDY ALEXANDER | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounce half-and-half 1 ounce dark crème de 1⁄4 teaspoon grated cacao nutmeg In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, crème de cacao, and half-and-half. Shake | well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BRANDY ALEXANDER #2 | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounce heavy cream 1 ounce white crème de 1⁄4 teaspoon grated cacao nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BRANDY BLAZER | 1 teaspoon granulated 1 slice orange sugar 1 lemon twist 2 ounces brandy | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the brandy. Add the orange slice. Tilt the glass and carefully ignite the drink with a match. Stir with a long spoon until the flame is extinguished. Strain into a punch cup and garnish with the lemon twist.
BRANDY CLASSIC | 1 lemon wedge 1 tablespoon powdered sugar Crushed ice 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 2 teaspoons maraschino liqueur 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | Moisten the rim of a cocktail glass using the lemon wedge; discard the lemon. Roll the outside edge of the rim in a saucer containing the sugar. In a shaker almost filled with crushed ice, combine the brandy, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass.
BRANDY COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces brandy  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost | full. Add the brandy. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange and lemon slices.
BRANDY COLLINS | 2 ounces brandy 3 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
BRANDY COOLER | 2 ounces brandy 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the brandy and the soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
BRANDY CRUSTA | 1 tablespoon superfine sugar 1 lemon wedge Peel of 1 orange, cut into 2 teaspoons maraschino a spiral liqueur Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a wine goblet with the lemon wedge and dip it into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lemon. Place the orange peel spiral in the goblet and drape one end of it over the rim of the glass. Fill the glass with crushed ice. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the goblet.
BRANDY DAISY | 2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice  11⁄2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec  sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
BRANDY FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 2 ounces brandy 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the brandy. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
BRANDY FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces brandy 4 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine  sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
BRANDY FLIP | 2 ounces brandy 1 whole egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
BRANDY SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port  sugar 2 teaspoons water 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg Crushed ice 1/8 teaspoon ground 21⁄2 ounces club soda cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and brandy. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the port on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and sprinkle on the nutmeg and cinnamon.
BRANDY SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 2 ounces brandy 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and brandy. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BRANDY SMASH | 4 fresh mint sprigs 21⁄2 ounces brandy 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice  sugar 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce club soda | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the mint sprigs lightly with the sugar and club soda. Fill the glass with ice cubes. Add the brandy. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
BRANDY SOUR | 2 ounces brandy 1 slice orange 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a whiskey sour glass and garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
BRANDY SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, brandy, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice and stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
CHAMPS ELYSEES | 2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce yellow Chartreuse 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 2 dashes bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHARLES COCKTAIL | 2 ounces brandy 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CITY SLICKER | 2 ounces brandy 1 tablespoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
COMFORTING TIGER | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon sweet 2 ounces brandy vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Southern 1 lemon twist Comfort | In a mixing glass, half-filled with crushed ice, combine the brandy, Southern Comfort, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
CORPSE REVIVER | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounce white crème de 1⁄2 ounce Fernet Branca menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DANCE WITH A DREAM COCKTAIL | 2 ounces brandy 1 teaspoon anisette 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FANCY BRANDY | 2 ounces brandy 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 lemon twist triple sec 1⁄4 teaspoon superfine  sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, Cointreau, sugar, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist. | FRENCH REVOLUTION See Wine Drinks, page 267.
HORSE’S NECK | Peel of 1 lemon, cut into 5 ounces ginger ale a spiral 2 dashes bitters 2 ounces brandy | Place the lemon peel spiral in a highball glass and drape one end of it over the rim of the glass. Fill the glass with ice cubes. Pour the brandy, ginger ale, and bitters into the glass. Stir well.
JAPANESE | 2 ounces brandy 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon orgeat syrup 1 lime twist  1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, orgeat syrup, lime juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lime twist.
LA JOLLA | 2 ounces brandy 1 teaspoon orange juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
METROPOLITAN | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspon superfine sugar 1 dash bitters 2 ounces brandy | In a shaker half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MIKADO | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec 1 teaspoon crème de noyaux In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. PHOEBE SNOW | See Aperitifs, page 262
SIDECAR | 2 ounces brandy 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SOUTHERN BELLE | 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce Bènèdictine 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao | Pour the brandy into a pousse café glass. Tilt the glass to a 45-degree angle and slowly pour the crème de cacao down the side of the glass so that it floats on the brandy. Repeat this procedure with the Bènèdictine.
STINGER | 2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce white crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
 GIN | The word gin is merely a corruption of the Dutch for juniper—jenever—or from the French word for juniper—genièvre. Gin is a versatile yet distinctive beverage, the main ingredient in a Tom Collins, a Martini, and a Singapore Sling. Gin, a wonderfully perfumed potion, is probably the most notorious of liquors, and, for some reason, gin drinkers are seen as serious drinkers, people who like the taste of al- cohol and do not try to disguise it. This attitude is much appreciated by gin distillers, who go to great lengths to make their gin distinctive and jealously guard their recipes. Gin was first developed in the seventeenth century by a Dutch doctor, who combined alcohol with the juniper berry to concoct a remedy for kidney com- plaints. Apparently, although it did nothing for the  kidneys, the “tonic” was very popular due to its amnesia-inducing qualities. It made the patient for- get or, at the very least, not care about his com- plaint. Then came William III, another Dutchman, who married Mary II and became King of England in 1689. William had a personal grudge against the French because they were threatening his native Holland. Vengefully he raised excise duties on all French wines and brandies. This action made gin, the cheaper Dutch liquor, more accessible to the English public, thus hurting the French and benefit- ing Holland in one fell swoop. His adopted country took to the gin very quickly. They were soon making it themselves, and for a large part of the eighteenth century, gin became the solace of the English poor. Soldiers drank it before going into battle, and their drunken bravery came to be known as “Dutch Courage.” Juniper berries were erroneously believed to have the power to induce abortion, and thus gin earned the name “Mother’s Ruin.” If a person was living a debauched life, he was said to be on “Gin Lane.” All things considered, it is quite amazing that such a maligned drink is still with us, but gradually, gin became more socially acceptable, and today we have available to us a wide variety of distinctive gins. The next time you have a Martini, you may consider raising your glass to William III. Without him, you might be drinking straight vermouth. PRODUCTION 1.	Generallyspeaking,today’sginismadeby infusing juniper and other flavorings into a high-quality, neutral grain spirit. 2.	This spirit is made in a continuous still from wort, a liquid made, in the case of gin, by boiling and fermenting corn with malted barley and a small amount of another grain. 3. Theinfusionisusuallyachievedbymeans of distilling the spirit along with the flavor- ings in a pot still. DRY GIN If you order any standard gin drink, the gin that’s poured will be dry gin, unquestionably the most popular type of gin. All distillers use juniper berries and coriander seed in their dry gin recipes, but other flavorings may include fennel, calamus root, or- ris root, angelica root, almond, cardamom, cassia, ginger, cinnamon, licorice, caraway seeds, orange and lemon peels, and perhaps some other secret in- gredients that the distillers just won’t talk about. This collection of flavorings is known as the “botanicals.” The botanicals either are added to the neutral spirit in a pot still before the spirit is redistilled, or they may be suspended in the tower of the still so that the spirit vapors absorb their flavors. The “two-shot” method of distilling dry gin calls for a much larger proportion of botanicals, and the res- ulting, highly flavored liquor is then mixed with un- flavored neutral grain spirit to produce the correct strength. In America, dry gin may be made by adding the botanicals to the original distillation of the wort or even by adding oils or extracts from juniper and other botanicals to neutral grain spirits. The second method produces compound gin, which cannot be called distilled gin. DUTCH GIN Dutch gin, also known as “Hollands gin” or “Genever gin,” is made by infusing juniper and some, but not many, other botanicals into malt wine. Malt wine is a neutral grain spirit made from equal amounts of malted barley, corn, and rye. These products are boiled, and the resulting wort is allowed to ferment for a few days before being dis- tilled in a pot still. The resulting liquor may be re- distilled once or twice before finally being distilled in another pot still with the botanicals. Sometimes this liquor is then diluted with grain spirit from a continuous still to make the product less expensive. The two main types of Dutch gin are oude and jonge, old and young. Jonge contains much less malt wine and much more continuous still grain spirit. The slight golden color found in many Dutch gins comes from a small amount of coloring added to the final product. OLD TOM Old Tom, rarely produced anymore, is a sweet gin that is made in England. It is said to have been the gin used to make the original Tom Collins. In ad- dition to that lovely bit of trivia, Old Tom comes equipped with a wonderful legend. The tale told is that Old Tom gin was first distilled by Captain Dud- ley Broadsheet in eighteenth-century London. The captain used a carving of a tomcat as his shop sign and, I was amazed to hear, as his dispenser. The buyer would put his money into the cat’s mouth and hold a receptacle under one of the cat’s paws. Broadsheet would watch how much money was be- ing spent and pour the appropriate amount of gin in- to a pipe that ran through the leg of his cat and into the buyer’s glass. Personally, I would buy the dear captain’s gin just to see the show. PLYMOUTH GIN | Plymouth gin is made by only one distiller and is completely unsweetened. It was rumored that a small amount of sulfuric acid was added to Plymouth gin before it was distilled, but I cannot find any corroboration for this allegation. Plymouth gin is the traditional gin of the British Navy, and it is the gin of preference for an authentic Pink Gin.
ABBEY COCKTAIL | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes orange bitters 11⁄2 ounces orange juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, orange juice, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
ALASKA | 2 ounces gin 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce yellow Chartreuse | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ALEXANDER | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce light cream 1 ounce white crème de 1/8 teaspoon grated cacao nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
ALEXANDER’S SISTER | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce heavy cream 1 ounce green crème de 1/8 teaspoon grated menthe nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, crème de menthe, and heavy cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
ALEXANDER’S BIG BROTHER | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ARCADIA | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ARCHBISHOP | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Bènèdictine 1 ounce green ginger 1 lime wedge wine | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well.
ARTHUR TOMPKINS | 2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Grand Marnier, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
ARTILLERY | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BANNISTER | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon Pernod 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce applejack | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BARBARY COAST | 1 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 1⁄2 ounce Scotch cacao 1⁄2 ounce light rum 1 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BEAUTY SPOT | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 egg white 2 teaspoons white crème 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, crème de cacao, and egg white. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
BELLES OF ST. MARY’S | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce apricot brandy 1 ounce Cointreau or 2 teaspoons lemon juice  triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BENNET COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BERMUDA ROSE | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BERNARD’S BEVIE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspoon B & B | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BERNARDO | 2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 2 dashes bitters triple sec 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Cointreau, lemon juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
BITCH-ON-WHEELS | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Pernod 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce white crème de  menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLUEBIRD | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 lemon twist triple sec 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine the gin, Cointreau, Curaçao, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist and the cherry.
BLUE COWBOY | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 11⁄2 ounces gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOOMERANG | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, bitters, and maraschino liqueur. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
BOXCAR | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine triple sec 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
THE BRONX AINT SO SWEET | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon dry vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BRONX COCKTAIL | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CABARET | 1 ounce gin 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce Bènèdictine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, Bènèdictine, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
CAFÉ DE PARIS | 2 ounces gin 1 egg white 1⁄2 ounce anisette 1 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
CAPTAIN COOK | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce maraschino liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CAPTAIN’S TABLE | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Campari 4 ounces ginger ale 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Campari, grenadine, and orange juice. Shake well. Pour into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale. Garnish with the cherry.
CAROLI | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 2 ounces gin 1 dash orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CARUSO | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce green crème de 1 ounce dry vermouth menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CARUSO BLANCO | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce white crème de 1 ounce dry vermouth menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CASINO | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 2 dashes orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CASINO ROYALE | 2 ounces gin 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 egg yolk 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
CHELSEA HOTEL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CONFIRMED BACHELOR | Crushed ice 1⁄2 teaspoon Rose’s lime 11⁄2 ounces gin juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CRIMSON SUNSET | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce tawny port | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink and float the port on the top.
DELMONICO COCKTAIL | 1 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, brandy, sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
DIRTY DICK’S DOWNFALL | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce Campari 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, and Campari. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
DRAGONFLY | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 lime wedge 4 ounces ginger ale | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and ginger ale. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
EMERALD FOREST | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon white crème 11⁄2 ounces gin de menthe 1 teaspoon green crème  de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
EMERALD ISLE | Crushed ice 2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons green crème de menthe 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
EMERSON | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 2 teaspoons lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
EUROPEAN | 1 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce cream sherry 1⁄2 teaspoon Grand 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet Marnier Rouge 1 maraschino cherry | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, sherry, Dubonnet, vermouth, and Grand Marnier. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry.
FARMER GILES | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
FASTLAP | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Pernod 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass.
FAT FACE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
FIFTY-FIFTY | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 cocktail olive 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the olive.
FINO MARTINI | 21⁄2 ounces gin or vodka 1 lemon twist 11⁄2 teaspoons fino sherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin or vodka and the sherry. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
FLEET STREET | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth triple sec 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 teaspoon lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FLYING DUTCHMAN | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or  triple sec | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and Cointreau. Stir well.
FRENCH “75” | 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons superfine sugar 11⁄2 ounces lemon juice 4 ounces chilled Champagne or sparkling wine 1 orange slice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, sugar, and lemon juice. Shake well. Pour into a collins glass. Top with the Champagne. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
GENTLEMAN’S CLUB | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 ounce brandy 1 ounce club soda | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well.
GENT OF THE JURY | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 dash bitters 3 ounces pineapple juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
GIBSON | 21⁄2 ounces gin 3 cocktail onions 11⁄2 teaspoons dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the onions.
GIMLET | Originally a British concoction from the Far East, the gimlet combines two ingredients that probably spring immediately to mind with the very mention  of the word British: gin and lime. Was it first made with fresh lime juice or Rose’s lime juice, which is concentrated and sweetened? We shall probably never know, but since the Rose’s product has had such a long and impressive history (which predates the gimlet), I am inclined to think that Rose’s was the ingredient that invented the drink. Rose’s lime juice was first concocted by Lauchlin Rose of Scotland in 1867 and was sold to shipping companies as a preventative remedy for scurvy. This helpful and profitable sale of his product also served to introduce Rose’s lime juice wherever the ships were headed throughout the world. It was first exported to America in 1901. Variations on the gimlet include the Rum Gimlet (page 128), Tequila Gimlet (page 171), and Vodka Gimlet (page 198). 2 ounces gin 1 lime wedge 1⁄2 ounce Rose’s lime juice | Pour the gin and lime juice into a mixing glass halffilled with ice cubes. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lime wedge.
GIN AND BITTER LEMON | 11⁄2 ounces gin 4 ounces tonic water 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water.
GIN AND PINK | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 5 ounces tonic water 1 lemon twist | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, tonic, and bitters. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
GIN AND SIN | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GIN AND TONIC | 2 ounces gin 1 lime wedge 5 ounces tonic water | Pour the gin and the tonic water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
GIN BLOODY MARY | 21⁄2 ounces gin 5 ounces tomato juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1/8 teaspoon salt 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 3 dashes Worcestershire sauce 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, tomato juice, lemon juice, salt, pepper, Worcestershire, and Tabasco sauce. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lime wedge.
GIN-CASSIS FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces gin 4 ounces club soda 11⁄2 ounces lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well. Drop the cassis into the center of the drink.
GIN COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces gin sugar 1 maraschino cherry 3 ounces club soda 1 orange slice  Crushed ice 1 lemon slice | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost full. Add the gin. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange and lemon slices.
GIN COOLER | 2 ounces gin 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the gin and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
GIN DAISY | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
GIN FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 2 ounces gin 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the gin. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
GIN FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine 4 ounces club soda  sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
GIN SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port  sugar 2 teaspoons water 11⁄2 ounces gin Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces club soda 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and gin. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the port on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and a sprinkling of nutmeg and cinnamon.
GIN SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 2 ounces gin  2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and gin. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
GIN SMASH | 4 fresh mint sprigs 1 ounce club soda 1 teaspoon superfine 21⁄2 ounces gin sugar 1 lemon twist | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the mint sprigs lightly with the sugar and club soda. Fill the glass with ice cubes. Add the gin. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
GIN SOUR | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 orange slice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
GIN SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon superfine 1 dash bitters sugar 3 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, gin, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with ice cubes. Stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
GOLDEN BRONX | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 egg yolk 1 teaspoon sweet  vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
GRASS SKIRT | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine triple sec 1 pineapple slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Cointreau, pineapple juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the pineapple slice.
GREENHAM’S GROTTO | 2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons orgeat syrup 1 ounce brandy 2 teaspoons lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass.
GUMBO FIZZ | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 ounce lemon juice triple sec 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce heavy cream sugar 3 ounces club soda 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, sugar, egg white, Cointreau, and heavy cream. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
GYPSY | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
HORNPIPE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 egg white 2 teaspoons cherry  brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HORSLEY’S HONOR | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce applejack 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 orange slice | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, applejack, and Cointreau. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
JET BLACK | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon black 2 teaspoons sweet Sambuca (Opal Nera) vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JEWEL OF THE NILE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce yellow 1⁄2 ounce green Chartreuse Chartreuse | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JOCKEY CLUB | 2 ounces gin 2 teaspoons crème de noyaux 2 teaspoons white crème de de cacao 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 dash orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
K.G.B. | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce kirsch 2 teaspoons apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, kirsch, apricot brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
LADYFINGER | 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 tablespoons kirsch 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LA STEPHANIQUE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LEANING TOWER | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 2 ounces gin 2 dashes orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LONDON TOWN | 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce maraschino liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAIDEN-NO-MORE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 ounce lemon juice triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAIDEN’S BLUSH | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 ounce lemon juice triple sec 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Cointreau, cherry brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
MARTINI | The martini is one of the simplest of drinks—smooth, dry, lightly perfumed (depending  on which gin you prefer)—and it is a classic aper- itif. The martini bespeaks an air of sophistication; it is an acquired taste that can be altered to suit the individual. It may be the classic cocktail. However, the martini also seems to give a drink- er a chance to boast of his or her individuality. Some say that one should merely introduce the bottle of vermouth to the gin, very politely of course: “Mr. Gin, allow me to introduce Mr. Ver- mouth. Don’t shake hands now; you will never mix.” Showman bartenders will keep the vermouth in an atomizer and merely spray the glass lightly before adding chilled gin. Others will keep their olives soaking in the vermouth, negating the need for any extra in the mixing glass. James Bond pre- ferred his martini shaken, not stirred, but that can “bruise” the gin. Bruise the gin? I imagine that one can bruise an olive, but, personally, I don’t believe that gin can be bruised. There seems to be no end of special treatments required for some people’s mar- tinis. They’ll easily choose between straight up or on the rocks, and generally the choice between a twist and an olive won’t challenge them too much. But then the peculiarities begin: They’ll want the martini straight up with a glass of ice cubes on the side, two olives put in the glass before the drink is poured in, or the twist must be rubbed around the rim of the glass, waved twice over the top, and then thrown away. No request is too bizarre. Of course, these days, you can make a martini with any white liquor at all—rum, tequila, gin, or vodka. The martini offers true freedom of choice: It might just be the very symbol of America. Put three cocktail onions into the drink, instead of the olive or twist, and it becomes a Gibson. Use a dash of Scotch instead of the vermouth, and you have a Sil- ver Bullet. Use saké, and you have a Sakétini, and, of course, if you make a martini with Scotch instead of gin and sweet vermouth instead of dry, the drink becomes a Rob Roy. Variations on the Martini include the Fino Martini (page 70), Rum Martini (page 128), Sakétini (page 89), Silver Bullet (page 90), Tequila Martini (page 171), Vodka Martini (page 198), Rob Roy (page 150), and the Gibson (page 71). 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist or 1 1 teaspoon dry vermouth cocktail olive | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
MARTINI #2 | 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist or 1 11⁄2 teaspoons dry cocktail olive vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
MARTINI #3 | 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist or 1  1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth cocktail olive | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
MARTINI #4 | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist or 1 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth cocktail olive | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
MARTINI COOLER | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Combine the gin, vermouth, and soda in a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
MERRY WIDOW | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Pernod 1 ounce dry vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 1 teaspoon Bénédictine 1 lemon wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, Bénédictine, Pernod, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
MONKEY GLAND COCKTAIL | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon Bénédictine 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
NAPOLEON | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet Rouge In a mixing glass, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. NEGRONI | See Aperitifs, page 261.
OAXACA JIM | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 1 ounce orange juice 1 lemon twist 1 ounce grapefruit juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, orange juice, grapefruit juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist and the cherry.
ONCE-UPON-A-TIME | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce Lillet | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
OPAL COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 2 dashes orange bitters triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
OPERA COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 1 maraschino cherry Rouge 1⁄2 ounce maraschino  liqueur | In a mixing glass, combine the gin, Dubonnet, maraschino liqueur, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
ORANGE BLOSSOM | 2 ounces gin 1 orange slice 1 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, orange juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the orange slice.
THE ORIGINAL SINGAPORE SLING | 1 ounce gin 1 ounce cherry brandy 1 ounce Bénédictine 4 ounces club soda In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the gin, Bénédictine, and cherry brandy. Stir | well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda and stir well.
THE OTHER ORIGINAL SINGAPORE | SLING 2 ounces gin 1⁄4 teaspoon Bénédictine 1 ounce cherry brandy 1⁄4 teaspoon brandy 1 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, cherry brandy, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Drop the Bénédictine and brandy into the center of the drink.
PETTICOAT LANE | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce Campari 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, and Campari. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
PINK CREAM FIZZ | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce light cream 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 teaspoon superfine 4 ounces club soda sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, sugar, cream, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
PINK GIN | 3 dashes bitters 2 ounces gin, preferably Plymouth | Pour the bitters into a wine glass. Swirl the glass to coat the inside with the bitters; shake out the excess. Pour the gin into the glass. Do not add ice.
PINK LADY | 2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 egg white 1⁄2 teaspoon cherry brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PINK PUSSYCAT | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 4 ounces pineapple juice | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and pineapple juice. Stir well. Drop the cherry brandy into the center of the drink.
PRINCETON COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 ounce lime juice 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RAMOS FIZZ | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 ounce lemon juice triple sec 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce light cream sugar 3 ounces club soda 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, sugar, egg white, Cointreau, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
RED GIN | Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Cherry Heering | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine the gin and Cherry Heering. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
RED RUBY | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROLLS-ROYCE | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspoon Bénédictine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROOT BEER FIZZ | 2 ounces gin 4 ounces root beer 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry  1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the root beer. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry.
ROSE COCKTAIL | 2 teaspoons powdered sugar 1 lime wedge 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 teaspoon grenadine | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip it into the sugar to coat thoroughly; discard the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, apricot brandy, vermouth, lemon juice, lime juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass.
ROUGE MARTINI | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Chambord | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and Chambord. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROYALTY FIZZ | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon blue Curaçao 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 whole egg 3 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, Curaçao, sugar, and egg. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
RUBY IN THE ROUGH | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon sweet 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SAKÉTINI | 21⁄2 ounces gin or vodka 1 cocktail olive 11⁄2 teaspoons saké | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin or vodka with the saké. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the olive.
SHADY LADY | 2 ounces gin 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SILVER BRONX | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon orange juice 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 egg white  1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
SILVER BULLET | 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist 11⁄2 teaspoons Scotch | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin and Scotch. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SINGAPORE SLING | A drink that has changed enormously over the years, the original Singapore Sling was concocted at the Raffles Hotel in Singapore. It had equal amounts of gin, Bénédictine, and cherry brandy ad- ded to some club soda. Some folks, however, claim that it was first made with a few drops of brandy and Bénédictine, together with two parts gin to one part of cherry brandy and one part lime juice. These are indeed superb drinks, and they deserve  mention alongside the recipe for what is now com- monly accepted as a true Singapore Sling. See re- cipes for The Original Singapore Sling and The Other Original Singapore Sling on page 85. 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy sugar 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice 21⁄2 ounces gin 1 lemon twist 4 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and gin. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well. Float the cherry brandy on top. Garnish with the cherry, the orange slice, and the lemon twist.
SMART CHRISTINE | 2 ounces gin 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Bénédictine, and orange juice. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry.
SUGAR DADDY | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce pineapple juice 2 teaspoons maraschino 1 dash bitters liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TEN QUIDDER | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 dash bitters 1 ounce Cointreau or 1 teaspoon blue Curaçao triple sec | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, Cointreau, and bitters. Stir well. Pour the Curaçao into the center of the drink.
TOM COLLINS | Which came first, Tom Collins or John? I don’t really know, although I suspect that it was actually John. Here is my reasoning: A Tom Collins is named after Old Tom Gin, which has been around since the early eighteenth century (see Gin, page 58). A John Collins was probably named after some bartender during the Civil War. It is made with bourbon, which has been around only since the late eighteenth century (see Bourbon, page 21). Since Americans are largely responsible for “inventing” cocktails in the first place, I choose to believe that the first “Collins” was a John Collins, concocted during the Civil War and later copied using Old Tom Gin. This drink was, of course, known as a Tom Collins in a reference to the gin. Variations on the Tom Collins include the John Collins (page 30) and the Vodka Collins (page 197). 2 ounces gin 3 ounces club soda  1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
TWENTY THOUSAND LEAGUES | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon Pernod 11⁄2 ounces gin 2 dashes orange bitters 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
UNION JACK | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WHITE LADY | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon superfine 1 egg white sugar 1 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WIDOW WITH A SECRET | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon Campari 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 1 teaspoon Bénédictine 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon Pernod | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the gin, vermouth, Bénédictine, Pernod, Campari, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
YALE COCKTAIL | 2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon blue Curaçao 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RUM | Christopher Columbus did much more than discover the Americas; he also brought sugar cane to the West Indies. This gave all of those pirates of yesteryear a darned good base from which to make some liquor and, ultimately, gave us cocktails such as the Cuba Libré, the Bacardi Cocktail, and the Daiquiri. For trade purposes, rum was the best way for the Spanish settlers to store their sugar cane, since, when dis- tilled, it would not deteriorate with age as would the fresh product. The derivation of the word rum is unknown. It may have come from saccharum, Latin for “sugar,” but personally, I find that explanation a little mundane. I think the drink took on the word British sailors originally used to describe it—rum. Rum is a word still used in parts of England as an adjective.  A “rum lad” is a man known for being a good sort of a chap, if somewhat of a daredevil or prank- ster, and this word dates back to the seventeenth century. In the early part of the eighteenth century, British sailors were given Barbados Water to com- bat scurvy. Naming the drink “rum” would seem to make sense when the drink was a good, if some- what daring, way of combating a fatal disease. PRODUCTION Raw sugar cane is pressed between rollers to extract juice. The juice is boiled down, clarified, and put into machines that spin around at a ferocious rate, crystallizing the sugar and separating it from the residue, which is molasses. The molasses is re- boiled, yielding a low-grade sugar, and the residue is then mixed with water and yeast, allowed to fer- ment, and then distilled to produce rum. Rums are divided into four main categories: light, medium, full-bodied, and aromatic. Rum bottles must, by law, state their country of origin, and, although each country is usually connected to a certain type of rum, Jamaican rum does not have to be full-bodied, and Puerto Rican rum is not ne- cessarily light. Añejo rum simply means “aged” rum; it usually has a tawny color and more mellow flavor. PUERTO RICAN RUM During the distillation process, small amounts of the “mash” from the previous distillation are added to the new batch, similar to the method employed in making sour mash whiskey. After the mash has fer- mented for a few days, it is distilled in a continuous still and then aged in oak casks. The casks may or may not be charred depending on the type of rum desired. The rum must be aged for at least a year to produce a light-bodied, dry rum. Amber or golden rums from Puerto Rico are aged for a minimum of three years and have caramel added to enhance the color gained from the casks. If the rum is aged for over six years, it may be designated as vieux or li- queur rum. VIRGIN ISLANDS RUM The Virgin Islands generally produce a dry, light- bodied rum similar to Puerto Rican light rum. DEMERARAN RUM From Guyana, this rum is very dark and yet has only medium body. It is often bottled with a very high alcohol content (151° proof), and is the rum traditionally used in a Zombie (see Tropical Drinks, page 244). JAMAICAN RUM The molasses used to make a good, full-bodied Ja- maican rum is naturally fermented for about three weeks. Natural fermentation means that yeast from the air, as opposed to cultured yeast, settles on the surface of the mash, which is supplemented by mash from previous distillations. It is double-dis- tilled in pot stills and aged in oak casks for a min- imum of five years. The color of Jamaican rum, however, comes more from the amount of caramel added than from the cask. MARTINIQUE AND HAITIAN RUM These rums are distilled from the juice of the sugar cane rather than from molasses. The juice is con- centrated and distilled in pot stills; the rum is then aged in oak casks from which it takes its color. The final product is medium-bodied. BATAVIA ARAK The production of this aromatic rum from the island of Java is absolutely intriguing. Small cakes are made from Javanese red rice; these are put into the molasses, which then ferments naturally (see Ja- maican rum). The distilled rum is aged for around three years in Java and then shipped to Holland, where it is further aged for up to six years before being blended and bottled. Batavia refers to the town where the arak (rum) is made. AGUARDIENTE DE CAÑA | This is the name given to most rums from South America. The best known among them in America is cachaça, from Brazil. Cachaça is the main ingredient of a Caipirinha, a wonderful sweet-andsour Brazilian cocktail.
ABILENE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 3 ounces orange juice 2 ounces peach nectar | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
ACAPULCO | 2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 egg white 1 mint sprig | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Cointreau, lime juice, sugar, and egg white. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the mint sprig.
ADAM | 2 ounces dark rum 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
A FURLONG TOO LATE | 2 ounces light rum 1 lemon twist 4 ounces ginger beer | Pour the rum and ginger beer into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
ALMERIA | 2 ounces dark rum 1 egg white 1 ounce Kahlúa | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
A NIGHT IN OLD MANDALAY | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce añejo rum 3 ounces ginger ale 1 ounce orange juice 1 lemon twist In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the light rum, añejo rum, orange juice, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled | with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale. Garnish with the lemon twist.
APPLED RUM COOLER | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 2 teaspoons lime juice 1⁄2 ounce applejack 2 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, applejack, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda.
APPLE PIE | 1 ounce light rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 teaspoon applejack | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
APRICOT LADY | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce apricot brandy 1 egg white 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 orange slice triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, apricot brandy, Cointreau, lemon juice, and egg white. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice.
BACARDI COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Bacardi light 1 ounce lime juice rum 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BANANA RUM CREAM | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BARKIS IS WILLING | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 ounces club soda 1 ounce lime juice 2 ounces ginger ale 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 orange slice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lime juice, grenadine, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda and ginger ale. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
BARRIER BREAKER | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces cold coffee 1⁄2 ounce Galliano Crushed ice 2 teaspoons dark crème  de cacao | Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
BASIC BILL | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 2 dashes bitters Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BATIDA ABACI | 2 ounces cachaça 4 ounces fresh pineapple, cut into chunks (about 1 cup) 1⁄2 teaspoon granulated sugar 1 cup crushed ice | Place all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a wine glass.
BATIDA LIMAO | 2 ounces cachaça 1 cup crushed ice 1 ounce lime juice 2 teaspoons granulated sugar | Place all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a wine glass.
BATIDA MANGO | 2 ounces cachaça 2 teaspoons granulated 4 ounces chopped fresh sugar mango (about 1 cup) 1 cup crushed ice | Place all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a wine glass.
BATIDA MORANGO | 2 ounces cachaça 1 cup crushed ice 5 very ripe strawberries 1⁄2 teaspoon granulated sugar | Place all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a wine glass.
BEACHCOMBER | 2 teaspoons superfine 1 teaspoon maraschino  sugar 1 lime wedge 2 ounces light rum liqueur 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, maraschino liqueur, cherry brandy, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass. Garnish with the lime wedge.
BEADLER TO THE FRONT | 1 ounce dark rum 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Pernod 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BIG BAND CHARLIE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce melon liqueur 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
THE BIGWOOD GIRLS | 3⁄4 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK DEVIL | 2 ounces light rum 1 pitted black olive 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the olive.
BLACK MONDAY | 1 ounce dark rum 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce black Sambuca 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice (Opal Nera) | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK STRIPE COLD | 2 ounces dark rum 1 ounce boiling water 1⁄2 ounce molasses Crushed ice 1 teaspoon honey | Pour all of the ingredients into a mixing glass and stir well to dissolve the honey and molasses. Pour into an old-fashioned glass filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
BLIGHTER BOB | 1 ounce light rum 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 2 ounces ginger ale 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis 1 lemon twist 1 ounce orange juice | Pour light rum, dark rum, cassis, orange juice, orange bitters, and ginger ale into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
BLUE MOUNTAIN | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Tia Maria 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce vodka | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BOLERO | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce Calvados 2 teaspoons sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BOSTON SIDECAR | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOWTON NELL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce gin 11⁄2 ounces orange juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, brandy, gin, orange juice, lemon juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Stir well and garnish with the cherry.
BRIAN’S BELIEF | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 2 teaspoons superfine sugar 4 ounces cold tea | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de cacao, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tea and stir well.
BROWN COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BURNT EMBERS | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BUMBO | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄4 teaspoon grated 1 ounce lemon juice nutmeg 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BUSHRANGER | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 1 lemon twist Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Dubonnet, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
CAIPIRINHA | 2 teaspoons granulated 1 lime, cut into 8 wedges sugar 21⁄2 ounces cachaça | Muddle the sugar into the lime wedges in an oldfashioned glass. Fill the glass with ice cubes. Pour the cachaça into the glass. Stir well.
CAPE OF GOOD WILL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CARDINAL | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce maraschino triple sec liqueur 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CASA BLANCA | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1 teaspoon maraschino  liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CATHERINE OF SHERIDAN SQUARE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces cold coffee 1⁄2 ounce Tia Maria Crushed ice 1 ounce light cream | Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
CHARGER | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy sugar 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHERRIED CREAM RUM | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHOCOLATE MINT RUM | 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce 151° proof rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 2 teaspoons white crème de menthe 1⁄2 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
COMMUNICATOR | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 teaspoons dark crème 1⁄2 ounce Galliano de cacao | Pour all of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
CONTINENTAL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce green crème de 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine menthe sugar 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de menthe, lime juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
CORKSCREW | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce peach schnapps 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, peach schnapps, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
CORNWALL-NASH | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 ounces grape fruit juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 maraschino cherry triple sec | Pour the rum, gin, Cointreau, and grapefruit juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the cherry brandy into the center of the drink. Garnish with the cherry.
COSMOS | Crushed ice 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces light rum sugar 1 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CREOLE | 2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 4 ounces beef bouillon 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 dash Worcestershire 1 lemon wedge sauce | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, bouillon, Tabasco, Worcestershire, lemon juice, salt, and pepper. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
CUBA LIBRE | 2 ounces light rum 1 lime wedge 5 ounces cola | Pour the rum and cola into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
CUBAN COCKTAIL | 2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 2 teaspoons lime juice sugar 2 teaspoons lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CUL-DE-SAC | 21⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce Ricard | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DAIQUIRI | The town of Daiquiri, Cuba, gave its name to the popular and refreshing rum cocktail that originated there in 1898. The town’s doctors were at a loss as to how to combat an outbreak of malaria. The only “medicine” available to them was the local rum, which they hoped would help ward off the fever. American engineers who were working for the local mining company added lime juice and sugar to the rum to make it more palatable. They added ice cubes from distilled water, shook it up, and enjoyed their medicine, as much then as people do today.  11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lime juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DAMN-YOUR-EYES | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 1 lemon twist Blonde | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Dubonnet, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
DAVID BAREFACE | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DEEP, DARK SECRET | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce Kahlúa 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DeROSIER | 1 ounce añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DIANNE-ON-THE-TOWER | 2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 1 teaspoon dark crème de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DROOG’S DATE COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 2 teaspoons cherry triple sec brandy 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ELEPHANT LIPS | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes  1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
EL PRESIDENTE | 2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce lime juice 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ENTWISTLE’S ERROR | 2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces tonic water 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
EYE-OPENER | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 egg yolk 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 teaspoon superfine triple sec sugar 2 teaspoons Pernod 1 teaspoon white crème de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
FELL JUICE | 1 ounce light rum 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce dark rum sugar 2 ounces cranberry juice 1 egg white 2 teaspoons lemon juice Crushed ice 2 teaspoons lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice.
FIREMAN’S SOUR | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 ounces club soda 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 orange slice 1⁄2 ounce grenadine 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lime juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Stir well. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
FLIRTING WITH THE SANDPIPER | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 3 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 2 dashes orange bitters | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
GARETH GLOWWORM | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 teaspoon cherry brandy cacao In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de cacao, and heavy cream. Shake well. | Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the cherry brandy into the center of the drink.
GROG | 2 ounces dark rum 3 ounces water | Pour the rum and the water into an old-fashioned glass with no ice cubes. Stir well. Praise the gods that you weren’t in the British Navy!
HAIDIN-HAIDIN | 2 ounces light rum 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
HAT TRICK | 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce light rum | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dark rum, light rum, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HAVANA COCKTAIL | 1 ounce light rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 ounce pineapple juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HORSE AND JOCKEY | 1 ounce añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 ounce Southern 2 dashes bitters Comfort | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HOWELL SAYS SO | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice triple sec 2 dashes orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
IMMACULATA | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce lime juice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JONESEY | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum and crème de cacao. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JOY-TO-THE-WORLD | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 1⁄2 ounce bourbon cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ices cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
KRAZEE KEITH | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 2 teaspoons anisette 4 ounces cola 2 teaspoons cherry 1 lemon wedge brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, anisette, cherry brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the cola and stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
LAMB BROTHERS | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LANDED GENTRY | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce Tia Maria | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LIFETIMER | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce brandy sugar 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 4 ounces club soda  triple sec 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, apricot brandy, brandy, Cointreau, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Garnish with the lime wedge.
LITTLE PRINCESS COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LORD AND LADY | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce Tia Maria | Pour the rum and Tia Maria into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
LOVE FOR TOBY | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 teaspoon lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LUDWIG AND THE GANG | 1 ounce añejo rum 1 dash bitters 1 ounce vodka Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice.
MAESTRO | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce cream sherry 4 ounces ginger ale 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 lemon twist In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, sherry, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into  a collins glass almost filled with crushed ice. Top with the ginger ale. Garnish with the lemon twist. MAI TAI | See Tropical Drinks, page 239.
MALLELIEU | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier | Pour the rum, Grand Marnier, and orange juice into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
MANDEVILLE | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 teaspoon anisette 1 ounce cola In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the light rum, dark rum, anisette, lemon juice, and gren- adine. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned | glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the cola. Stir well.
MARDEE MINE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
MARGARET IN THE MARKETPLACE | 2 ounces añejo rum 1 teaspoon grenadine 2 teaspoons lime juice 1⁄2 ounce light cream 2 teaspoons lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MARY PICKFORD COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 maraschino cherry  1⁄2 teaspoon maraschino liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, pineapple juice, maraschino liqueur, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
MARY’S DREAM | 2 ounces light rum 4 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 2 dashes orange bitters triple sec 1 orange slice | Pour the rum, Cointreau, orange juice, and orange bitters into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
MAX THE SILENT | 1 ounce añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce applejack 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 teaspoon anisette | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MÉNAGE À TROIS | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce light cream 1 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MISS BELLE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 teaspoons dark crème 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MISTER CHRISTIAN | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MONKEY WRENCH | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 dash bitters 3 ounces grapefruit juice | Pour all of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
MORGAN’S MOUNTAIN | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 teaspoon Kahlúa cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the Kahlúa into the center of the drink.
MOSTLY MAL | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, vermouth, Cointreau, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
MOZART | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounces sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon Cointreau or triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, vermouth, Cointreau, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
MUMBO JUMBO | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1/8 teaspoon ground 1⁄2 ounce applejack cinnamon 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1/8 teaspoon grated 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine nutmeg sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
MUMSICLE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, bourbon, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
MUTINY | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 1 maraschino cherry  Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Dubonnet, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
NEVADA COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce lime juice 11⁄2 ounces grapefruit 2 teaspoons superfine juice sugar 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
OLYMPIA | 21⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
OWEN MOORE | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 teaspoon blue Curaçao cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de cacao, and heavy cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the Curaçao into the center of the drink.
PEREGRINE’S PERIL | 1 ounce dark rum 1 teaspoon lime juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1 teaspoon lemon juice bananes 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. PIÑA COLADA | See Tropical Drinks, page 240.
PLANTER’S PUNCH | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce añejo rum 1 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 2 teaspoons superfine sugar 3 ounces club soda 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 pineapple wedge 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dark rum, light rum, añejo rum, lime juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda and garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and pineapple and lime wedges.
PLANTER’S PUNCH #2 | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce añejo rum 1 teaspoon lime juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 ounce orange juice 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 pineapple wedge 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dark rum, light rum, añejo rum, lime juice, lemon juice, orange juice, pineapple juice, grapefruit juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and pineapple and lime wedges.
PLANTER’S PUNCH #3 | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum 1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 ounces orange juice 1 ounce pineapple juice 2 teaspoons bourbon 2 dashes bitters 1 teaspoon crème de 1 maraschino cherry cassis 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon Rose’s lime 1 pineapple wedge juice 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dark rum, light rum, añejo rum, bourbon, cassis, Rose’s lime juice, lemon juice, orange juice, pineapple juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and pineapple and lime wedges.
P.T.O. | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 2 ounces orange juice 1 orange slice | Pour the rum, vodka, Cointreau, and orange juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
PUFFER | 2 ounces light rum 2 ounces grapefruit juice 2 ounces orange juice 1 teaspoon grenadine | Pour the rum, orange juice, and grapefruit juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
QUARTER DECK | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce cream sherry 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
QUENTIN | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1/8 teaspoon grated 1⁄2 ounce Kahlúa nutmeg 1 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Kahlúa, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
REDCOAT | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RILEY’S SPARROW | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RUM COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces dark rum  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost full. Add the rum. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange and lemon slices.
RUM COLLINS | 2 ounces dark or light 3 ounces club soda rum 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the | club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
RUM COOLER | 2 ounces dark or light 1 lemon wedge rum 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the rum and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon wedge.
RUM CRUSTA | 1 tablespoon superfine sugar 1 lemon wedge Peel of 1 orange, cut into 2 teaspoons maraschino a spiral liqueur Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a wine goblet with the lemon wedge and dip the glass into  11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lemon. Place the orange peel spiral in the goblet and drape one end of it over the rim of the glass. Fill the glass with crushed ice. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the goblet.
RUM DAISY | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
RUM FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces light or dark sugar rum  1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice Crushed ice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the rum. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
RUM GIMLET | 2 ounces light rum 1 lime wedge 1⁄2 ounce Rose’s lime juice | Pour the rum and Rose’s lime juice into a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lime wedge.
RUM MARTINI | 21⁄2 ounces light rum 1 lemon twist or 1 11⁄2 teaspoons dry cocktail olive vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
RUM SOUR | 2 ounces light rum 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 orange slice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
RUM SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces rum | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, rum, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice and stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
SAND-GROWN-UN | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SANDRA BUYS A DOG | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce orange juice 1 ounce añejo rum 1 dash bitters 3 ounces cranberry juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SAXON COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 orange slice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, grenadine, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the orange slice. SCORPION | See Tropical Drinks, page 241.
SECRET PLACE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces cold coffee 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy Crushed ice 2 teaspoons dark crème de cacao | Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
SEPTEMBER MORNING | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1 egg white 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SERPENTINE | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce brandy sugar 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, brandy, vermouth, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
SEVILLA COCKTAIL | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port sugar 2 dashes orange bitters 1 egg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
SEVILLA COCKTAIL #2 | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 egg 1 ounce tawny port 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
SHANGHAI | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce anisette 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SILENT BROADSIDER | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 teaspoons sweet 2 teaspoons brandy vermouth 2 teaspoons Frangelico 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SISTER STARSEEKER | 2 ounces light rum 4 ounces tonic water 1 ounce lemon juice 1 lemon wedge 1 teaspoon grenadine | Pour the rum, lemon juice, grenadine, and tonic water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon wedge.
SITARSKI | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 ounces grapefruit juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
SLEEPY LEMON CLEGG | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1 ounce pineapple juice bananes Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 lemon wedge | Pour the rum, crème de bananes, lemon juice, orange juice, and pineapple juice into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well and garnish with the lemon wedge.
SLY GOES TO HAVANA | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 teaspoon white crème 1⁄2 ounce lime juice de cacao Crushed ice 1 teaspoon green Chartreuse | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice.
SONNY GETS KISSED | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 2 teaspoons lime juice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SON OF ADAM | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SPARK IN THE NIGHT | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 2 teaspoons lime juice 1⁄2 ounce Kahlúa | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
STANLEY SENIOR | 2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce cranberry 1 ounce grapefruit juice liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
STARSEEKER | 2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce orange juice 4 ounces tonic water | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon wedge.
STRAIN THE REIN | 3 teaspoons superfine 1 teaspoon Cointreau or sugar triple sec 1 lime wedge 1 ounce lemon juice 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce raspberry liqueur | Place 2 teaspoons of the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, raspberry liqueur, Cointreau, lemon juice, and remaining 1 teaspoon sugar. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass.
STRANGER-IN-TOWN | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce Calvados | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, vermouth, Calvados, and cherry brandy. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
SUE RIDING HIGH | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 2 ounces hot chocolate, cooled to room temperature 1 teaspoon heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de cacao, and hot chocolate. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the cream into the center of the drink.
SUFFRAGETTE CITY | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SURREY SLIDER | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 4 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce peach schnapps 1 orange slice | Pour the rum, peach schnapps, and orange juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
SUSAN LITTLER | 1 ounce dark rum 1 teaspoon Galliano 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 2 ounces orange juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
THREE-MILER COCKTAIL | 1 ounce light rum 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 ounce brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TRIAD | 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum 4 ounces ginger ale 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | Pour the rum, vermouth, amaretto, and ginger ale into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
TROUBLE FOR TINA | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao 2 ounces brewed coffee, cooled to room temperature 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄4 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, dark crème de cacao, white crème de cacao, coffee, and cream. Shake well. Strain into an oldfashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Dust with the cinnamon.
VETERAN | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy | Pour the rum and cherry brandy into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
VICIOUS SID | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 ounce lemon juice 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
WAKING TO THE CALL OF THE | MOCKINGBIRD 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce tawny port 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 egg white  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fash- ioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. ZOMBIE | See Tropical Drinks, page 244.
SCOTCH | Without Scotch, the peaty whisky from the land of swirling kilts and bellowing bagpipes, there would be no Rusty Nail, no Godfather, and no Rob Roy, and the world would be a sadder place. The word Scotch defines a whisky and cannot be applied to just any old object or person hailing from Scotland (known as Scottish). The art of distillation probably was introduced to Scotland by Irish monks who themselves learned the process from the Spaniards. They brought it to the west coast of Scotland when seeking to convert the then “heathen” Scot. It probably went a long way to convincing the Scots that Christianity was a fine re- ligion.  In 1643 excise taxes were introduced to Scot- land, and many distillers fled to the hills to escape the grasp of the tax man. These distilleries were often protected by the local citizens and were still in widespread use up until the early 1800s, when another law was introduced prohibiting the use of any still with a capacity of less than 500 gallons. Using a little tact and diplomacy this time, the gov- ernment managed to convince the illegal distillers that if their stills were legally recognized, then they could sell their product to a far larger audience. The continuous still (also known as the Coffey or the patent still; see page 22) was introduced in 1831, making the production of whisky much easi- er and far quicker. Competition between distilleries became rife, and Scotch was exported for the first time. Prohibition played a large part in making Scotch popular in America. A certain Captain McCoy, a famous Prohibition-era smuggler, guaranteed that any Scotch bought from him was the real thing. That’s how the term “the real McCoy” entered our language. PRODUCTION Blended Scotches have long been popular in Amer- ica. “Single malt” Scotch gained much popularity in the late 1980s. In defining the production pro- cesses involved in making Scotch, it is easiest to describe each “category” separately, starting with the “single malt,” the pure, unblended form. SINGLE MALT SCOTCH Single malt Scotch is made entirely from malted barley, that is, barley that has been germinated to release fermentable sugars and then heated to stop the germination process. The malt is then milled and “mashed,” mixed with warm water in a “mash- tun,” to complete the conversion of starches to fer- mentable sugars. The liquid is strained and be- comes known as “wort.” Yeast is added to the wort, and the resulting fermentation yields alcohol. The fermented wort is distilled in pot stills to produce single malt Scotch. Finally it is poured into oak sherry or bourbon casks for aging. It was not until the late nineteenth century that the Scots discovered that aging their single malts made a vast difference in the taste. Legally, single malt must be aged for at least three years, although it is rare that a distiller will offer it for sale under five years old. The popular standard is to give malt whisky 12 years of barrel aging, until it is mature and has soaked up the flavors from the casks. Many experts say that after 15 years the Scotch begins to take on the flavor of the wood rather than the sherry or bourbon. Wood flavors are not desirable. This group prefers single malts aged no more than 15 years. Others believe that some heartier distillations can withstand 18 to 25 years of aging without suf- fering any ill effects whatsoever. Just like a fine Cognac or a vintage wine, the single malt Scotch offers bouquet, palate, and fin- ish, and therefore, each one can be properly savored and judged on these aspects. The differences among single malt Scotches come from many variants within each distillery and its location. The deciding factors include: 1.	The water from which they are made. Distilleries are located near the springs and wells that supply the water for the Scotch. They are built because of the quality of the nearby water, and that water is not treated before it is used in the distilling process. Ideally, the water used distilling single malts rises from granite and flows over peat. 2.	The peat, a type of moss over which the water flows. In some cases, the peat also is used in the kilns to stop the malting pro- cess. The flavor of the peat differs from area to area, helping make each district and even each distillery produce a Scotch that is peculiar to itself. 3.	The air surrounding the casks during mat- uration. Since the casks breathe the air, the atmospheric characteristics of the region are infused into the Scotch giving, for ex- ample, Islay Scotches an undertone of sea air or iodine. 4.	The shape of the pot still. This factor is so important that when a still must be re- placed, it is copied right down to the last dent that some careless welder may have put into the original one in 1824! Tall towers on the pot still tend to produce lighter Scotches, whereas short, squat towers produce a heavier, oilier Scotch. 5.	The casks in which they are aged. Oak casks are always used, but since virgin oak imparts too much vanilla flavor, the casks used for aging single malts are bought from bourbon or sherry distillers. The single malt, therefore, takes on some of the flavor of the previous occupant of the cask. Some malts are aged in bourbon casks, some in sherry casks, and some are started in bour- bon and finished in sherry. In addition to these influences, the heather or the sea-weed in the peat, the microflora in the wood of the tun-room, and some say even the color of the distiller’s tartan make a difference, too. Indeed, the possibilities are mind boggling, and these variants make the single malt intriguing to connoisseurs. Single malt Scotches are usually divided into four regions: Highlands, Lowlands, Islay, and Cam- beltown. The Highlands can be further broken down since the area is so large, and in addition to Islay, there are other Scotch-producing is- lands—Skye, Mull, Jura, and Orkney. Scotches from these small areas can be hard to find in the United States and, since they are few, are almost impossible to regionalize. I give here a generalization of the characteristics of each area. Remember, these are not descriptions of the brand names used as examples; these brands serve only as a guideline to help you choose a Scotch representative of each area. Each individual single malt Scotch differs from the next. The Lowlands yield soft, sweetish, fruity malts re- lying less on peat and granite springs and more on the flavor of the malt itself. Try Auchentoshen, Glenkinchie, or Ladyburn. Cambeltown produces briny, salt-sweet Scotch, drawing on the sea air for much of its character. This Scotch usually imparts a light peatiness along with a fresh palate. Try Springbank or Longrow. Islay delivers a very distinctive product drawing on the sea air that not only permeates the casks, but is also responsible for the flavor imparted from the peat. These malts are known for having an iodine and peaty flavor, some say almost medicinal. Try Bunnahabhain, Laphroaig, or Lagavulin. Speyside is often referred to as the Rolls-Royce of Scotch-producing regions. A delimited area of the Highlands, Speyside runs roughly between the cit- ies of Iverness and Aberdeen. The whiskies from this region are diverse within themselves and actu- ally can be divided into smaller areas within Spey- side. Generally, however, they tend toward being smoky and full-bodied; many are aged totally in sherry casks and therefore impart sweetness from the sherry. Try The Macallan, The Singleton, or Glenlivet. Western Highland Scotches are few and therefore hard to categorize. They are generally firm and dry with some peatiness. Try Oban or Glengoyne. Northern Highland malts draw from the sea air and the heather-packed soil to produce Scotch that is both spicy and flowery. Try Glenmorangie, Dal- more, or Glenordie. Eastern Highlands produce sweet, fruity single malts that are ideal after dinner. Try Lochnagar or Glen Garioch. The Southern Highland or Midland region tends to be better known for its blended Scotches, such as Dewar’s and Famous Grouse. Malts from this dis- trict tend to be fruity, medium sweet, and nutty. Try Edradour or Glenforres (vatted). VATTED MALT SCOTCH This is a blend of single malt Scotches from a vari- ety of distilleries. No whisky from continuous stills is added. These Scotches tend to be more consistent than regular single malts, since the proportions used in the blending process can be fine-tuned to guaran- tee the exact same flavor as the previous bottling. BLENDED SCOTCH | These Scotches use a proportion of several single malt Scotches that are blended with whisky distilled in continuous stills from unmalted barley or corn. The continuous still is more effective than the pot still, but the resulting liquor is correspondingly less flavorful.
AFFINITY | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BALMORAL | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 2 dashes bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK JACK | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce Kahlúa 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or  triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLIMEY | 2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce lime juice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLINDER | 2 ounces Scotch 1 teaspoon grenadine 5 ounces grapefruit juice | Pour the Scotch and grapefruit juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
BRAINSTORM | 2 ounces Scotch 1 teaspoon sweet 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CALEIGH | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CELTIC MIX COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce Irish whiskey 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHOKER | 2 ounces Scotch 2 dashes bitters 2 teaspoons Pernod | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DICKIE WARD | 2 ounces Scotch 4 ounces ginger ale 1 dash bitters 1 lime wedge | Pour the Scotch, bitters, and ginger ale into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
DRY ROB ROY | 21⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 lemon twist 11⁄2 teaspoons dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
FANCY SCOTCH | 2 ounces Scotch 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 lemon twist triple sec 1⁄4 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the Scotch, Cointreau, sugar, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
GODFATHER | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
GRAND MASTER | 2 ounces Scotch 3 ounces club soda 1⁄2 ounce peppermint 1 lemon twist schnapps | Pour the Scotch, schnapps, and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
HIGHLAND FLING | 2 ounces Scotch 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, vermouth, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
HIGHLAND SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 2 ounces Scotch 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and Scotch. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
HOOTS MON | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Lillet | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ITALIAN HEATHER | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch Crushed ice 1 ounce Galliano 1 lime wedge | Pour the Scotch and Galliano into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
JAMES THE SECOND COMES FIRST | 2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce tawny port 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JOCK COLLINS | 2 ounces Scotch 3 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
JOCK-IN-A-BOX | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 egg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass half-filled with ice cubes.
L’AIRD OF SUMMER ISLE | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 3 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce Pernod | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
LOCH LOMOND | 2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Drambuie 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, Drambuie, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
MA BONNIE WEE HEN | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce cream sherry 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MACBETH’S DREAM | 2 ounces Scotch 1 teaspoon white Curaçao 1 teaspoon amaretto 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAN OF THE MOMENT | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce Grand Marnier 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MA WEE HEN | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce dry sherry 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
McDUFF | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 orange slice triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, Cointreau, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the orange slice.
MIAMI BEACH COCKTAIL | 1 ounce Scotch 1 ounce grapefruit juice 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MITHERING BASTARD | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
MODERN COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon dark rum 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon Pernod | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PERFECT ROB ROY | 21⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 teaspoon sweet 1 maraschino cherry or 1 vermouth lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, sweet vermouth, and dry vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry or the lemon twist.
PIPER AT THE GATES OF DAWN | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce heavy cream 1 ounce Kahlúa 1⁄2 ounce maraschino liqueur In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the Scotch, Kahlúa, and maraschino liqueur. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost | filled with ice cubes. Pour the cream slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
PIPER AT ARMS | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 lemon twist 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
ROB ROY | Variations on the Rob Roy include the Dry Rob Roy (page 145) and the Perfect Rob Roy (page 149). 21⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 maraschino cherry 11⁄2 teaspoons sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
RUSTY NAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce Drambuie | Pour the Scotch and Drambuie into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SCOTCH AND WATER | 2 ounces Scotch 5 ounces water | Pour the Scotch and the water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SCOTCH COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces Scotch  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost | full. Add the Scotch. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange and lemon slices.
SCOTCH COOLER | 2 ounces blended Scotch 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the Scotch and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
SCOTCH DAISY | 2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
SCOTCH FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the Scotch. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
SCOTCH FLIP | 2 ounces Scotch 1 egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
SCOTCH MIST | 21⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 lemon twist Crushed ice | Pour the Scotch into a shaker half-filled with crushed ice. Shake well. Pour, unstrained, into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SCOTCH OLD-FASHIONED | 3 dashes bitters 3 ounces Scotch 1 teaspoon water 1 orange slice 1 sugar cube 1 maraschino cherry | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the bitters and water into the sugar cube, using the back of a teaspoon. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes and add the Scotch. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry. Serve with a swizzle stick.
SCOTCH SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port sugar 1 lemon twist  2 teaspoons water 11⁄2 ounces Scotch Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces club soda 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and Scotch. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the port on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and a dusting of nutmeg and cinnamon.
SCOTCH SOUR | 2 ounces Scotch 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
SWIRLING TO THE BEAT OF THE | HAGGIS WINGS 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 teaspoon grenadine triple sec 1 teaspoon egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TARTAN SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces Scotch | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, Scotch, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice. Stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
TARTANTULA | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Scotch, vermouth, and Bénédictine. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
THRILLER | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce orange juice 1 ounce green ginger wine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TO HELL WITH SWORDS AND GARTERS | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 11⁄2 ounces pineapple 1 ounce dry vermouth juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
WHISKY MAC | 11⁄2 ounces Scotch 1 ounce green ginger wine | Pour both of the ingredients into a wine goblet with no ice.
WIDOW WOODS’ NIGHTCAP | 2 ounces Scotch 4 ounces milk 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TEQUILA | This unique briny liquor, made exclusively in Mex- ico from the agave plant, gives us the base for a Mar- garita, the Brave Bull, and, of course, the Tequila Sunrise. It is a romantic, daring drink, which bears a distinctive dry taste that lends itself to producing a strain of cocktails peculiar to tequila. Tequila ac- quired a cult status in the 1950s, when the erroneous rumor that it contained mescaline coupled with its romantic rituals made it a favorite with “hip” Cali- fornians. The drink was then incorporated into the aforementioned popular cocktails, as well as many others, and the demand for tequila extended throughout the States. For at least one thousand years before Spain in- vaded Mexico, the Aztecs were drinking pulque, a low-alcohol wine made from the mezcal plant; it  is still consumed in Mexico today. Along came the Spaniards in the early part of the sixteenth cen- tury, bringing with them the art of distillation, and tequila was born. Pulque was used by the Aztecs in many rituals, and, indeed, tequila is well known as a drink of ritual, being consumed straight with salt and lime in a ceremony seen in bars throughout the world. (The ritual is described in detail in this chapter under Tequila Cruda, page 170.) Tequila was first imported legally to the United States in the 1870s. It was further promoted by American soldiers defending Zapata’s raids during the Mexican Revolution in 1916. Prohibition also helped tequila gain popularity in the States. Since it was distilled legally in Mexico, tequila only had to be smuggled over the border to quench the thirst of deprived Americans. PRODUCTION The base of a mature agave plant is steamed in or- der to extract the sap. The sap ferments for about 10 days, producing “mother pulque”. This is then ad- ded to fresh sap and allowed to ferment, producing pulque (wine). The pulque is then double-distilled in pot stills, and the resultant vino mezcal. can be exported immediately as a “white” liquor, or it may be aged in oak casks to produce an añejo or aged product. For tequila aficionados, let’s set the record straight on mezcal and tequila. Tequila is to mezcal what Cognac is to brandy; that is, tequila is a su- perior form of mezcal. Tequila is produced only in two designated regions of Mexico, one surround- ing the town of Tequila, the other in the area of Te- patitlan. Mezcal is produced in numerous regions throughout Mexico. While tequila is made only from a blue-colored agave plant, specifically Agave tequilana weber, mezcal can be made from different varieties of agave. Production of tequila is governed by strin- gent quality standards that are not applied to mezc- al. Ordinary tequila is considered “white” tequila. GOLD TEQUILA There are no Mexican regulations governing the aging of this product, although most producers claim that it is aged in white oak casks for two to four years. TEQUILA AÑEJO This “aged” tequila must be aged for a minimum of one year in white oak casks. SILVER TEQUILA | Wax-lined vats are used to age this product, which is mellower than ordinary (white) tequila but still has no color.
ALLELUIA | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 teaspoon blue Curaçao 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 4 ounces tonic water 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, Curaçao, maraschino liqueur, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
BLOODY MARIA | 21⁄2 ounces tequila 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 5 ounces tomato juice 1/8 teaspoon celery salt 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 dash Tabasco sauce | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BLUE MARGARITA | 2 teaspoons coarse salt 11⁄2 teaspoons Cointreau 1 lime wedge or triple sec 11⁄2 ounces tequila 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, Curaçao, Cointreau, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass and garnish with the lime wedge.
BORDER CROSSING | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 4 ounces cola 2 teaspoons lime juice 1 lime wedge 1 teaspoon lemon juice | Pour the tequila, lime juice, lemon juice, and cola into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
BRAVE BULL | 2 ounces tequila 1 ounce Kahlúa | Pour the tequila and Kahlúa into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
CACTUS BITE | 2 ounces tequila 2 ounces lemon juice 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine triple sec sugar 2 teaspoons Drambuie 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CALIFORNIA DREAM | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 maraschino cherry In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the tequila, sweet vermouth, and dry ver- | mouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
CAMPBELL F. CRAIG | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 2 ounces pineapple juice 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Chambord | Pour the tequila, orange juice, and pineapple juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the Chambord into the center of the drink.
COMPADRE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 teaspoon maraschino 2 dashes orange bitters liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DARING DYLAN | 2 ounces tequila Crushed ice 1 ounce Kahlúa 4 ounces Mexican hot chocolate, cooled to room temperature Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass almost | filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
DOCTOR DAWSON | 2 ounces tequila 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 egg 1 teaspoon superfine 3 ounces club soda sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, sugar, bitters, and egg. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda.
DORALTO | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 4 ounces tonic water 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 lime wedge sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, sugar, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water and garnish with the lime wedge.
DOWNSIDER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1 teaspoon lemon juice bananes 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
EXECUTIVE SUNRISE | 11⁄2 ounces gold tequila 2 teaspoons crème de 4 ounces freshly cassis  squeezed orange juice | Pour the tequila and the orange juice into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the cassis into the center of the drink.
FREDDY FUDPUCKER | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 4 ounces orange juice | Pour the tequila and orange juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Pouring slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon, float the Galliano on top of the drink.
FROZEN MARGARITA | 2 teaspoons coarse salt 2 ounces lime juice 1 lime wedge 1 cup crushed ice 3 ounces white tequila 1 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a collins glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime. Pour the tequila, Cointreau, lime juice, and crushed ice into a blender. Blend well at high speed. Pour into the collins glass. Garnish with the reserved lime wedge.
GATES OF HELL | 11⁄2 ounces tequila Crushed ice 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 2 teaspoons lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice. Drizzle the cherry brandy over the top.
GENTLE BEN | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce vodka 4 ounces orange juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
GOLD MARGARITA | 2 teaspoons coarse salt 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau 1 lime wedge 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 2 ounces gold tequila | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, Cointreau, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass and garnish with the lime wedge.
GULL’S WING | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes | In a shaker half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an oldfashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice.
HOT PANTS | 2 teaspoons salt 1 lime wedge 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce peppermint schnapps 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of an oldfashioned glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, schnapps, grapefruit juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into the glass.
JOUMBABA | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 3 ounces tonic water 2 ounces grapefruit juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
JUAN BLUE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 2 ounces orange juice 1 dash bitters 1 ounce grapefruit juice 2 teaspoons blue Curaçao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, orange juice, grapefruit juice, lemon juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Pouring slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon, float the Curaçao on top of the drink.
JUBILEE | 1 ounce tequila 1⁄2 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice  1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 4 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, gin, vodka, Curaçao, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda and garnish with the cherry.
JUMPING BEAN | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 3 coffee beans 1⁄2 ounce Sambuca | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila and Sambuca. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the coffee beans.
LEAPFROG | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 teaspoon sweet 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin vermouth 1 lime wedge | Pour the tequila, sole gin, and vermouth into an oldfashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
MARGARITA | These days Margaritas come in a variety of colors and flavors—blue, peach, mango—none of them bearing much resemblance to the pure, original cocktail that spread through California in the early part of the twentieth century. One thing certain about the Margarita is that it was named for a wo- man; exactly which woman and what she did to earn the accolade is arguable. One Mexico City- born señorita claims that she was the inspiration for the drink in the 1930s, while another lady claims it was first concocted for her in the 1950s in Acapulco. I think that both stories are absolutely true, and I wish both women, and any others out there who claim to be the Margarita, all the best and my heartfelt congratulations. The Margarita is indeed a wonderful creation. Variations on the Margarita include the Blue Margarita (page 159), Frozen Margarita (page 162), Gold Margarita (page 163), Peach Margarita (page 167), and Strawberry Margarita (page 170).  2 teaspoons coarse salt 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 lime wedge triple sec 2 ounces tequila 11⁄2 ounces lime juice | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime wedge. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, Cointreau, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass. Garnish with the reserved lime wedge.
MASSACRE | 2 ounces tequila 4 ounces ginger ale 1 teaspoon Campari | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
MEXICANA | 2 ounces tequila 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MOONRAKER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 4 ounces pineapple juice | Pour the tequila and pineapple juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the Curaçao into the center of the drink.
PEACH MARGARITA | 2 teaspoons coarse salt 11⁄2 teaspoons Contreau 1 lime wedge or triple sec 11⁄2 ounces tequila 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1⁄2 ounce peach liqueur Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; reserve the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, peach liqueur, Cointreau, and lime juice. | Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass and garnish with the lime wedge.
PINK PARADISE | 2 ounces tequila 3 dashes bitters | Pour the tequila into a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Put the bitters into a brandy snifter and swirl it around to coat the glass. Discard any extra bitters. Strain the tequila into the snifter.
PIPER | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 4 ounces strong coffee, cooled to room temperature Crushed ice | Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
POKER FACE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 4 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 lime wedge  triple sec | Combine the tequila, Cointreau, and pineapple juice in a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
RED FACE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 4 ounces cranberry juice 1 teaspoon cranberry 1 lime wedge liqueur | Pour the tequila, cranberry liqueur, and cranberry juice in a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
ROSITA | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 dash bitters 1 ounce Campari Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth Pour the tequila, Campari, sweet vermouth, dry ver- mouth, and bitters into an old-fashioned glass al- | most filled with crushed ice. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
SCOTTIE WAS BEAMED UP | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce Galliano | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila and Galliano. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SHADY LADY | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 5 ounces grapefruit juice 1⁄2 ounce melon liqueur | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SHAKER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 3 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SILK STOCKING | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 1⁄2 teaspoon Chambord cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SMILER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 2 teaspoons ruby port 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, sugar, and port. Shake well. Pour into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry.
STELLA’S STINGER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon Pernod 1 teaspoon white crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, Pernod, and crème de menthe. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
STRAWBERRY MARGARITA | 2 teaspoons coarse salt 11⁄2 teaspoons Cointreau  1 lime wedge 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce strawberry liqueur or triple sec 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 strawberry | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, strawberry liqueur, Cointreau, and lime juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass and garnish with the strawberry.
TEQUILA COLLINS | 2 ounces tequila 3 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
TEQUILA COOLER | 2 ounces tequila 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the tequila and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
TEQUILA CRUDA | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 pinch salt 1 lime wedge | Pour the tequila into a shot glass. Take the lime wedge and rub it on your left hand where your thumb and index finger meet. Sprinkle the salt over the now wet part of your hand. Hold the lime wedge between your left thumb and index finger. Hold the shot glass in your right hand. Are you ready? Lick the salt off your hand. Wash it away with the tequila. Suck on the lime wedge. Scrunch up your eyes and shake your head as if involuntarily.
TEQUILA FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces tequila 4 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the tequila, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain | into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
TEQUILA GIMLET | 2 ounces tequila 1 lime wedge 1⁄2 ounce Rose’s lime juice | Pour the tequila and Rose’s lime juice into a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lime wedge.
TEQUILA MARTINI | 21⁄2 ounces tequila 1 lemon twist or 1 11⁄2 teaspoons dry cocktail olive vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
TEQUILA MOCKINGBIRD | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon white crème de menthe | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TEQUILA MOONRISE | 3 ounces tequila 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce Rose’s lime juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon sugar 2 ounces ale | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, light rum, dark rum, Rose’s lime juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ale.
TEQUILA SOUR | 2 ounces tequila 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine  sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
TEQUILA STINGER | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce white crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila and crème de menthe. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TEQUILA SUAVE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon white crème 1 orange slice de cacao 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lemon juice, crème de cacao, grenadine, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
TEQUILA SUNRISE | Word has it that this drink was concocted by a befuddled bartender in San Francisco, who had stayed at the bar drinking with a few friends until the boss walked in at around 9:00 A.M. The bar owner demanded an explanation, and the drunken bartender explained that he had stayed to watch the sun rise so that he could create a drink that re- sembled the occurrence. Of course, he had to pro- duce the drink in order to prove his story, and to his credit, he quickly built a Tequila Sunrise. Yes, it sounds pretty unlikely to me, too. A variation on the Tequila Sunrise is the Executive Sunrise (page 162). 11⁄2 ounces tequila 2 teaspoons grenadine 4 ounces orange juice | Pour the tequila and orange juice into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
TIME KILLER | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 teaspoon salt 5 ounces Mexican beer 1 lemon wedge | Pour the tequila and beer into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Sprinkle the salt on top and garnish with the lemon wedge.
TOREADOR | 2 ounces tequila 1 ounce heavy cream 1 ounce dark crème de 1⁄4 teaspoon unsweetened cacao cocoa powder | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cocoa.
VIVA VILLA | 2 teaspoons superfine 2 ounces tequila sugar 1 ounce lime juice 1 lime wedge 1 teaspoon lemon juice | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tequila, lime juice, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass.
ZULTRY ZOË | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 4 ounces Mexican hot chocolate, cooled to room temperature Crushed ice | Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
VODKA | Once referred to as a “necklace of negatives,” vodka, the base of the Screwdriver, Bloody Mary, and the Kamikaze, is immediately recognizable for its dis- tinct lack of aroma, color, and taste. The word vodka comes from the diminutive of the Russian word voda, meaning “water,” making it “little water.” Little water with a big kick. Vodka is mentioned in twelfth-century Russian lit- erature, but at that time the name was used to refer to any spirit, no matter what it was distilled from or how highly flavored it was. The spirit, as we know it, was probably concocted in fourteenth-century Rus- sia. It didn’t come to America until the 1930s when the Smirnoff family arrived with their recipe and set up, once again, in the distillery business. The pro- duction of vodka in Russia was banned by the czar at  the start of World War I, and, by the time it was once again legalized, the state had taken control of all industry. There is a romantic Russian ritual of smashing glasses in the fireplace after consuming vodka to ensure that whatever toast has just been made will come true. A manager from the Russian Samovar Restaurant in New York City told me that a famous Russian poet was visiting Robert Kennedy and to- gether they drank a toast to life with Russian vodka. Ethel Kennedy refused to let them smash the glasses, which were family heirlooms, but she brought, in their stead, some plastic glasses to break. The plastics merely bounced around the fire- place. PRODUCTION Vodka can almost be made from whatever happens to be lying around—beets are used in Turkey, while Britain tends to favor molasses—though most vodka is produced from potatoes, corn, and wheat. It is distilled at a very high alcohol content and then filtered through vegetable charcoal. The better ones are filtered through activated charcoal or very fine quartz sand. GOLD VODKA This spirit, referred to as Stárka or “old,” is simply vodka that has been aged in wine casks for around 10 years. PEPPER VODKA Known as Pertsovka, this fiery hot Russian vodka is infused with cubeb, cayenne, and capsicum. This style of vodka is said to come from Czar Peter the Great, who added pepper to his vodka. There are other classic flavored vodkas such as Yubileyneya Osobaya, containing honey and brandy, and Okhotnichya, which is infused with a | collection of herbs. And, as I write this, there is probably some well-meaning entrepreneur about to infuse vodka with a mixture of Chinese tea leaves and banana peel. That is actually the beauty of vodka: It lends itself to being flavored with whatever the drinker wishes.
ABERFOYLE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 ounce Drambuie | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice. Stir well.
AQUEDUCT | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 teaspoon lime juice 1 teaspoon white 1 teaspoon lemon juice Curaçao 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon apricot brandy In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Curaçao, apricot brandy, lime juice, and | lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BERTRAND’S BLACK MAGIC | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce black Sambuca (Opal Nera) | In a mixing glass combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK EYE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce blackberry brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLACK RUSSIAN | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Kahlúa | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
BLOODY BULL | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 3 ounces tomato juice 2 ounces beef bouillon 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 dash Worcestershire sauce 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1 lemon wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, tomato juice, bouillon, lemon juice, pepper, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
BLOODY MARY | I have heard only two explanations for the name of this drink. One is that it was named after Mary I of England, a sixteenth-century queen who was nicknamed Bloody Mary because of the number of people that she had put to death. It is quite cer- tain that nobody drank vodka and tomato juice be- fore Mary got her epithet, so I prefer this explan- ation to the one that gives credit to the character  in the 1949 musical South Pacific who was desig- nated bloody because her teeth were stained red from chewing betel nuts. Of course, given the way English royalty used to have people killed, it is somewhat surprising that we don’t have a whole lineage of drinks named Bloody Ethelred, Bloody Henry, Bloody Richard, and Bloody Harold. I imagine that the Brits only gave the title to Mary because such behavior was unbecoming to a female. As to who first concocted the Bloody Mary, well, many different people have taken credit, but it is usually credited to a bartender at Harry’s New York Bar in Paris during the 1920s. His name was Fernand Petiot. You may want to make a batch of Bloody Marys if you are throwing a brunch or a breakfast party. If so, make the tomato juice mixture without the vodka. That way the mix won’t separate, and non- drinkers can help themselves to Virgin Marys. Variations on the Bloody Mary include the Bloody Bull (above), Bloody Maria (page 158), and Clamato Cocktail (page 182). 21⁄2 ounces vodka 5 ounces tomato juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 celery rib 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 lime wedge 1/8 teaspoon celery seed | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, tomato juice, lemon juice, pepper, salt, celery seed, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the celery and the lime wedge.
BLOODY MARY #2 | 2 ounces pepper vodka 1 slice jalapeño pepper 4 ounces V-8 juice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and V-8 juice. Shake well. Strain into a high- 3 dashes Worcestershire sauce 1 dash Tabasco sauce | ball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Float the jalapeño slice on top.
BLOODY MARY #3 | 2 ounces lemon-flavored 1⁄4 teaspoon minced fresh vodka dill or a dash of dried 4 ounces tomato juice 1 lemon slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, tomato juice, and dill. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Float the lemon slice on top.
BLUEBEARD | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce blueberry brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLUE LAGOON | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 1 orange slice 4 ounces lemonade | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Curaçao, and lemonade. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
BLUE MONDAY | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BRAZEN HUSSY | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BULLFROG | 2 ounces vodka 4 ounces lemonade 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 lemon wedge triple sec | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Cointreau, and lemonade. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
BULLSHOT | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 5 ounces beef bouillon 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 dash Worcestershire sauce 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1 lemon wedge  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, bouillon, pepper, Worcestershire, and Ta- basco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass al- | most filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
CAPE CODDER | 2 ounces vodka 1 lime wedge 5 ounces cranberry juice | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and cranberry juice. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
CHERRY RIPE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, cherry brandy, and brandy. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
CLAMATO COCKTAIL | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 1 dash Worcestershire 3 ounces tomato juice sauce  2 ounces clam juice 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 lemon wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, tomato juice, clam juice, pepper, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
CZARINE | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DEANNE | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, vermouth, and Cointreau. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
DESERT SHIELD | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 4 ounces cranberry juice 1⁄2 ounce cranberry liqueur | Combine all of the ingredients in a highball glass. Stir well.
DOYLES’ DELIBERATION | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce melon liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DUKE’S A CHAMP | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce blackberry  brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and brandy. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DUSTY DOG | 2 ounces vodka 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis 5 ounces ginger ale 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, cassis, lemon juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
EXTERMINATOR | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce fino sherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FIRE AND ICE | 11⁄2 ounces pepper vodka 1 teaspoon dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FIREFLY | 2 ounces vodka 1 teaspoon grenadine 4 ounces grapefruit juice | Pour the vodka and grapefruit juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
FOGGY AFTERNOON | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 teaspoon crème de bananes 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, brandy, Cointreau, crème de bananes, and | lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
FRIGHTLEBERRY MURZENQUEST | 1 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon maraschino 	1⁄2  ounce Galliano liqueur 	1⁄2  ounce Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec 1 maraschino cherry 	1⁄2  ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Galliano, Cointreau, lime juice, maraschino liqueur, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
FUZZY NAVEL | 1 ounce vodka 4 ounces orange juice 1 ounce peach schnapps | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
GALE AT SEA | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GALWAY GREY | 1 ounce vodka 1 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 ounce light cream cacao 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
GLACIER MINT | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce green crème de 1⁄2 ounce lemon-flavored menthe  vodka | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GLASNOST | 2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce peppermint schnapps | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GODMOTHER | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
GORKY PARK | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, cherry brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
GREEN MIRAGE | 1 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon blue Curaçao 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 2 teaspoons dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GREYHOUND | 2 ounces vodka 5 ounces grapefruit juice | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and grapefruit juice. Stir well.
HARVEY WALLBANGER | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 4 ounces orange juice | In a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and orange juice. Stir well. Float the Galliano on top.
HER NAME IN LIGHTS | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce yellow Chartreuse 2 teaspoons Galliano 2 teaspoons blue Curaçao 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Chartreuse, Galliano, Curaçao, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
HOSS’S HOLDUP | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 3 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine  triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
IDONIS | 2 ounces vodka 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JACKATH | 1 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 2 teaspoons brandy triple sec 1 teaspoon crème de cassis 2 dashes orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JOY JUMPER | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons kümmel 1 teaspoon lime juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄4 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, kümmel, lime juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
KAMIKAZE | 2 ounces Stolichnaya 1 teaspoon Rose’s lime vodka juice | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drink in one go.
KAMIKAZE #2 | The Kamikaze described above was the original formula. It was designed to get a person  drunk—quickly. Since then the drink below has been modified slightly and designed more for sip- ping than gulping—probably a very good idea. 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons Rose’s lime 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or juice triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
KANGAROO COCKTAIL | 2 ounces vodka 1 lemon twist 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
KAROFF | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 5 ounces club soda 1 ounce cranberry juice 1 lime wedge | Pour the vodka, cranberry juice, and club soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
KRETCHMA COCKTAIL | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 dash grenadine cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LA CARRÉ | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons kümmel 2 teaspoons dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LATHAM’S RULE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 3 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 2 dashes orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
LAUGHING AT THE WAVES | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Campari 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, vermouth, and Campari. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
LONG ISLAND ICED TEA | 1 ounce vodka 1 ounce gin 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce tequila 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 4 ounces cola | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, gin, rum, tequila, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a mixing glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the cola and stir well. Sip this drink over a long period of time—two days isn’t out of the question.
MADRAS | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 ounces orange juice 2 ounces cranberry juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
MAJOR TOM | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce kirsch 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MARC FELDINI | 2 ounces vodka 1 cucumber rind sliver 1⁄2 teaspoon saké | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and saké. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cucumber.
MAZRICK | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons Galliano 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 ounce pineapple juice triple sec 2 dashes bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
MORNING GLORY | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 ounces light cream 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 1⁄4 teaspoon grated  cacao nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the nutmeg.
MOSCOW MULE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 4 ounces ginger beer 1 ounce lime juice 1 lime wedge | Pour the vodka, lime juice, and ginger beer into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
NINOTCHKA COCKTAIL | 2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ON-THE-TOWN | 1 ounce vodka 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Campari 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
OUR STANLEY | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce gin triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
OWDHAM EDGE | 1 ounce vodka 2 teaspoons Sambuca 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 ounce light cream cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PIECE OF MIND | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 lemon twist 1 ounce kümmel | Pour the vodka and kümmel into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
PRETTY THING | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce coconut cream 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PURPLE HAZE | 1⁄2 ounce Chambord 1 ounce lemon-lime soda 11⁄2 ounces lemon-  flavored vodka | Pour the Chambord into a snifter. Pour the vodka into a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes; stir well. Carefully strain the vodka on top of the Chambord. Top with the soda. Add a straw and drink through the straw from the bottom to the top.
PURPLE PASSION | 2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons superfine 2 ounces grape juice sugar 2 ounces grapefruit juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
QUIET BUT QUICK | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 dash orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROCKY’S DILEMMA | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RUSSIAN COCKTAIL | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RUSSIAN KAMIKAZE | 2 ounces vodka 1 teaspoon Chambord | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a sour glass.
SALTY DOG | 2 teaspoons salt 2 ounces vodka 1 lime wedge 5 ounces grapefruit juice | Place the salt in a saucer. Rub the rim of a highball glass with the lime wedge and dip the glass into the salt to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes. Pour the vodka and grapefruit juice into the glass. Stir thoroughly.
SARAH | 1 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon Campari 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1 teaspoon crème de 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth bananes | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SCREWDRIVER | 2 ounces vodka 5 ounces orange juice | Pour the vodka and orange juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SEA BREEZE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 3 ounces cranberry juice 2 ounce grapefruit juice 1 lime wedge | Pour the vodka, grapefruit juice, and cranberry juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lime wedge.
SEX ON THE BEACH | 1 ounce vodka 2 ounces orange juice 1 ounce peach schnapps 2 ounces cranberry juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SILVER SUNSET | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1 egg white 1⁄2 ounce Campari 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, apricot brandy, Campari, lemon juice, orange juice, and egg white. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
SLOW COMFORTABLE SCREW | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 4 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SPYMASTER | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1 egg white  bananes | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
STUFFY-IN-A-SUIT | 1 ounce vodka 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce Lillet 1 egg white 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 orange slice triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, Lillet, Cointreau, orange bitters, and egg white. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice.
VICKER’S TREAT | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 2 dashes orange bitters 4 ounces lemonade | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
VODKA AND BITTER LEMON | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 4 ounces tonic water 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water.
VODKA COLLINS | 2 ounces vodka 3 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 teaspoons superfine 1 orange slice sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add | the club soda and stir. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
VODKA COOLER | 2 ounces vodka 1 lemon wedge 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the vodka and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
VODKA DAISY | 2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 orange slice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
VODKA DRY | 1 teaspoon dry sherry 1 lemon twist 11⁄2 ounces vodka | Pour the sherry into a snifter. Swirl it around the glass and pour out the excess. Stir the vodka in a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes. Strain into the snifter. Garnish with the lemon twist.
VODKA GIMLET | 2 ounces vodka 1 lime wedge 1⁄2 ounce Rose’s lime juice | Pour the vodka and Rose’s lime juice into a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lime wedge.
VODKA MARTINI | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 1 lemon twist or 1 11⁄2 teaspoons dry cocktail olive vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the olive.
VODKA SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 2 ounces vodka 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and vodka. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
VODKA SOUR | 2 ounces vodka 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain | into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
VODKA SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces vodka | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, vodka, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice and stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
WHITE RUSSIAN | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 ounce light cream 1 ounce Kahlúa | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
WHITE SPIDER | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce white crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WINDEX | 21⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WITCH OF VENICE | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Strega 2 teaspoons crème de  bananes | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WOO WOO | 11⁄2 ounces vodka 4 ounces cranberry juice 1⁄2 ounce peach schnapps | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
WHISKEY | The word whiskey comes from the Gaelic word uis- gebaugh, which means “water of life.” If you say “uisgebaugh” quickly (if you can say it at all), it comes out something like WYS-GER-BAW, which was shortened and Anglicized to “whiskey.” Whis- key is made from grain; the types and proportion of grains together with the different aging processes de- termine each whiskey’s style and flavor. The cocktails in this chapter contain a base of either blended American whiskey, Canadian whisky, or Irish whiskey; they include cocktails like the Manhattan, the Old-Fashioned, and the Presbyterian. There are many different varieties of American whiskies—wheat, sour mash, Tennessee, rye, corn, malt, rye malt, and bourbon. All of them fall under one or more of the headings straight, blended, or  light whiskies. Bourbon and sour mash are de- scribed in the Bourbon chapter; the rest are defined here. WHISKEY AND WHISKY Here’s another wonderful bar discussion—the e in “whiskey.” This e is used only in spelling the names of Irish and American whiskies. There is, of course, an exception here, and it lies with a brand of bour- bon known as Maker’s Mark. The founder of the distillery, Mr. Samuels, was given special permis- sion to drop the e from his whisky in order to pay homage to his Scottish heritage. PRODUCTION All whiskies undergo a similar basic distillation process: Grain is ground into a product known as “grist” in a gristmill. Water is added to the grist, and it is cooked to release starches. Malt is added to convert the starches into sug- ar. The grist is strained off, and the remaining li- quid, “wort,” is fed with cultured yeast and al- lowed to ferment, which results in an alcohol- ic liquid known as beer. This beer is then distilled in either a pot still or a continuous still—often called a Coffey still, patent still, or double-column still—to produce whiskey. The whiskey is then watered down to around 100° proof (50 percent alcohol) and aged in a variety of types of barrels, determined by the type of whiskey being made. AMERICAN WHISKEY As far as is known, the first whiskey in the New World was distilled in the Northeast during the Re- volutionary War, during which the British set up naval blockades that stopped the supply of rum from the West Indies and Cuba—probably the cruelest move the British could have made. Initially, American whiskey was made from the abundant rye and barley, and later on, as people moved westward, corn. The farmers of that era found that using their grain for the production of whiskey was the best way to make it a viable, trans- portable product for sale in the cities in the East. American whiskey is usually aged in oak barrels that have been charred on the inside. Just how this method came about is unsure. Some say that it was the result of a fire in a cooperage, after which the charred barrels had to be used since no others were available. Others claim that it resulted from the practice of burning out barrels previously used for fish or molasses to rid the cask of the flavor and odor of the previous occupant. STRAIGHT WHISKEY This term simply means that the whiskey it de- scribes—bourbon, Tennessee, corn, rye, malt, mal- ted rye, or wheat—is a bottling of a distillation that has not been blended with any other whiskey or neutral grain spirit. Water, of course, is always ad- ded to a distillation to bring the proof down to the desired level. Any “straight” whiskey must be dis- tilled from a 51 percent base of a single grain, the type of grain being dependent on the type of whis- key. BLENDED WHISKEY The word blended is applicable to about 47 percent of all American whiskies. Each blend contains a minimum of 20 percent straight whiskey, mixed with neutral grain spirit, grain spirit (aged in used oak barrels), or light whiskey. A blended whiskey may also contain a small amount of sherry, or peach or prune juice. LIGHT WHISKEY Usually made from a very high percentage of corn, light whiskey is aged in uncharred casks or previ- ously used casks. This practice serves a great pur- pose. It gives the bourbon distillers someone other than the Scots to sell their used casks to (see Bour- bon, page 22). This product may be bottled as light whiskey or blended light whiskey. RYE WHISKEY This term can be applied only to whiskies made from a mash containing a minimum of 51 percent rye. The category can be split into straight rye and blended rye, although blended rye can contain neut- ral grain spirit or whiskey made from grain other than rye. TENNESSEE WHISKEY This whiskey absolutely must be made in Tenness- ee. It must also be made from at least 51 percent of any one grain, usually corn. CORN WHISKEY As opposed to bourbon, which must use a minimum of 51 percent corn, corn whiskey must use at least 80 percent corn and is aged in previously used or uncharred oak casks. WHEAT, MALT, AND RYE MALT WHISKEY All of these whiskeys must contain, respectively, 51 percent wheat, barley malt, or rye malt grains. CANADIAN WHISKY Canadian whisky must be produced only from cer- eal grain, such as corn, rye, wheat, or barley. The actual percentages used by the individual distillers aren’t specified by law as they are in the United States. The American government, however, insists that all imported Canadian whiskies be designated as “blended” as opposed to “straight”. IRISH WHISKEY Ireland generally employs similar methods of distil- lation to Scotland (see Scotch, page 138) with one or two variations. The main difference is that Irish whiskey is normally distilled three times in a pot still, whereas Scotch is distilled only twice (except in a few cases in the Lowlands). Irish whiskey is sweeter and not as peaty as many Scotches, and it is usually blended with whiskey made from a continu- ous still, although there are single malt Irish whis- keys available. The single malt Irish whiskies are made purely from malted barley, whereas, like Scotch, the whis- key used in blending can be made from unmalted barley, corn, rye, wheat, or oats. Irish whiskey is generally aged for a minimum of five years in used sherry casks. POTEEN | Usually pronounced PO-CHEEN, this word comes from the Gaelic poit’in, meaning “in a pot.” Poteen merely refers to any unlawfully distilled spirit, usually very high in alcohol, colorless, unaged, undistinctive but somehow very romantic to drink.
ALGONQUIN | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth whiskey 1 ounce pineapple juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
AVRIL | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce cranberry  whisky liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BABY’S BOTTOM | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce white crème de whiskey cacao 1⁄2 ounce white crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BANFF COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce kirsch whisky 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1 lemon twist In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the whisky, Grand Marnier, kirsch, and bitters. | Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BARNSTQRMER | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce peppermint schnapps 1 teaspoon dark crème de cacao 1 teaspoon white crème de cacao 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BAY HORSE | 11⁄2 ounces blended whiskey 1⁄2 ounce Pernod 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄4 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Pernod, crème de cacao, and cream. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the nutmeg.
BILL LEAVES TOWN | 2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon grenadine whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, vermouth, and grenadine. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
BLACK HAWK | 2 ounces blended 1 ounce sloe gin whiskey | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLUE MONDAY | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon brandy whisky 1⁄2 ounce blueberry brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BOILERMAKER | 1 ounce blended whiskey 12 ounces beer | Pour the whiskey into a shot glass. Pour the beer into a Pilsner or beer mug. Drink the whiskey in one go. Sip the beer. Drink a Boilermaker only if you are sober before you start and tough enough to drink whiskey in one go.
BOOT HILL | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine  1⁄2 ounce applejack sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BORROWED TIME | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 egg yolk whisky 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce ruby port | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CABLEGRAM | 11⁄2 ounces blended whiskey 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 4 ounces ginger ale 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale. Garnish with the lemon twist.
CALIFORNIA LEMONDADE | 11⁄2 ounces blended 4 ounces club soda whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
CANADIAN COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine whiskey sugar  1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CANADIAN SALAD | 1 ounce Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice  1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce Irish Mist 1⁄2 ounce Scotch 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 orange slice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, brandy, Irish Mist, Scotch, orange juice, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
CAT AND FIDDLE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon Pernod whisky 1 teaspoon Dubonnet  1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or Blanc triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
COMMODORE | 2 ounces Canadian 1 dash bitters whisky 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lime juice sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DINAH COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine whiskey sugar 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DOUBLE STANDARD SOUR | 1 ounce blended whiskey 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce gin 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, gin, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
DRY MANHATTAN | 2 ounces blended 3⁄4 ounce dry vermouth whiskey 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
DUBONNET MANHATTAN | 2 ounces blended 1 dash bitters whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Dubonnet, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
DUSTY BILL | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 2 teaspoons lemon juice  whisky 1⁄2 ounce applejack 1 teaspoon brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, applejack, brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry.
ERUPTION | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis whisky 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky and cassis. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
EVERYBODY’S IRISH | 2 ounces Irish whiskey 1 ounce green Chartreuse 1 ounce green crème de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FANCY WHISKEY | 2 ounces blended 1⁄4 teaspoon superfine whiskey sugar 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 2 dashes bitters triple sec 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Cointreau, sugar, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
FAUX SCRUMPY | 11⁄2 ounces blended 6 ounces apple juice whiskey | Pour both of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
FINE AND DANDY | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or  whisky 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet Rouge triple sec 1 dash bitters 1 lemon twist | Combine the whisky, Dubonnet, Cointreau, and bitters in an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
GAULT’S GUMPTION | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon sweet whisky vermouth 1⁄2 ounce peach schnapps | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GERALDINE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon dry vermouth whisky 1 dash bitters 	1⁄2  ounce yellow 1 maraschino cherry Chartreuse 	1⁄2  ounce Dubonnet Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, Chartreuse, Dubonnet, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
GREATHEAD | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce applejack whiskey | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HEARTY SUSAN | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy whiskey 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey and brandy. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass Garnish with the cherry.
HORSE FEATHERS | 2 ounces blended 2 dashes bitters whiskey 4 ounces ginger ale | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
HOT DECK | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth whiskey 1 ounce green ginger wine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
IRISH CANADIAN | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Irish Mist whisky | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JERSEY GENTLEMAN | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce Pernod whiskey 1 ounce pineapple juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
L.A. COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 egg 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, vermouth, lemon juice, sugar, and egg. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the cherry.
LA BELLE QUÉBEC | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LADYLUV | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum whiskey 1 teaspoon white crème 1⁄2 ounce dark rum de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LADY’S COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon anisette whiskey 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MADAME RENÉ | 2 ounces blended 1 ounce orange juice whiskey 1 dash bitters 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAJOR BRADBURY | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1 teaspoon dry vermouth 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MANHASSET | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon dry vermouth  whiskey 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MANHATTAN | Besides being a darned good drink, the Manhattan has a rather interesting story to go with it. This cocktail was reportedly developed for Lady Jenny Churchill, a Brooklyn-born woman who married Lord Randolph and gave birth to Winston. The drink was first served at the Manhattan Club in New York, at a banquet given by Lady Jenny in honor of Samuel J. Tilden. Mr. Tilden was a famous lawyer of his time, who prosecuted the Tweed Ring, a group of politicians who stole millions from New York City. A cherry is the correct garnish for a Manhattan, whereas a twist belongs in a Dry Manhattan; a Per- fect Manhattan can take either. The Manhattan is made with sweet vermouth but should not be called a Sweet Manhattan. There is only a Manhattan, a  Dry Manhattan (page 211), and a Perfect Manhat- tan (page 221). 2 ounces blended 3 dashes bitters whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 3⁄4 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
MAPLE LEAF | 2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon dark crème de whisky cacao 1⁄2 ounce Irish Mist 1 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MENDAY’S PERIL | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey 1⁄2 ounce orange juice  1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 2 dashes orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
MILLIONAIRE | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine whiskey 1 egg white 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass.
MOLEHILL LOUNGER | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon white crème whiskey de cacao 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MOUNTIE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Campari whisky | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
NEW YORK COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine whiskey 1 lemon twist 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
OLD-FASHIONED | The classic Old-Fashioned is made with blended whiskey. The original was concocted at the Pendenis Club in Louisville, Kentucky. There used to be seven distilleries in Louisville, and it is said that a representative from one of them concocted the drink for a retired Civil War general who didn’t care much for the taste of whiskey, but who, like a good general should, really did enjoy the effect. Fortunately, though the name of the gen- eral and the distillery seem to be lost forever, one longtime employee at the Pendenis does remember that the original Old-Fashioned used branch water, as opposed to tap water. Branch water is merely a southern term for bottled water, so if you are mak- ing the drink for a special occasion, open a bottle of whatever designer water you have around. Americ- an water is preferred, of course.  Variations include the Bourbon Old-Fashioned (page 28) and the Scotch Old-Fashioned (page 152). 3 dashes bitters 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon water 1 maraschino cherry 1 sugar cube 3 ounces blended whiskey | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the bitters and water into the sugar cube, using the back of a teaspoon. Almost fill the glass with ice cubes and add the whiskey. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry. Serve with a swizzle stick.
OLD GROANER | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce amaretto whisky | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
OLD GROANER’S WIFE | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce amaretto whisky 1 ounce heavy cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
OLD NICK | 2 ounces Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 3 dashes orange bitters 1 lemon twist  1⁄2 ounce Drambuie 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, Drambuie, orange juice, lemon juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist and the cherry.
OPENING COCKTAIL | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth whiskey 2 teaspoons grenadine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PARK PARADISE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon maraschino whisky liqueur 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PERFECT MANHATTAN | 21⁄2 ounces blended whiskey 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 dash bitters 1 lemon twist or 1 marachino cherry In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the whiskey, dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, | and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist or the cherry.
POOR TIM | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth whiskey 2 teaspoons Chambord | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PREAKNESS | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth whiskey 2 dashes bitters 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Bénédictine, brandy, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
PRESBYTERIAN | 2 ounces blended 3 ounces club soda whiskey 1 lemon twist 2 ounces ginger ale | Pour the whiskey, ginger ale, and club soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
PRINCE RUPERT | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce anisette whiskey 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey with the anisette. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
PURGAVIE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 2 ounces orange juice whisky 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce Amer Picon 3 ounces club soda | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
QUEBEC | 2 ounces Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon Amer Picon 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
RATTLESNAKE | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1 teaspoon Pernod 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 egg white | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROCHDALE COWBOY | 11⁄2 ounces blended whiskey 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes.
SAND DANCE | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy whiskey 2 ounces cranberry juice | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SAN FRANCISCO | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine whiskey 1 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SCREAMIN’ HUDSON | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Drambuie whisky 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SCRUMPY STRONG | 1 ounce blended whiskey 6 ounces hard cider | Pour both of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
SEVEN AND SEVEN | 2 ounces Seagram’s 7 1 lemon twist whiskey 5 ounces 7-Up | Pour the whiskey and the soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SHAKIN’ BLUE MONDAY | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice  whiskey 1⁄2 ounce blueberry brandy 1 teaspoon brandy 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 orange slice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, blueberry brandy, brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
SHERMAN TANK | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1⁄2 ounce B & B 1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 dashes bitters 1 teaspoon lime juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SOCRATES | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon Cointreau or whisky triple sec 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SPEAKER OF THE HOUSE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon cherry brandy whisky 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce ginger wine 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, ginger wine, cherry brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
SPY CATCHER | 1 ounce Canadian whisky 1⁄2 ounce Sambuca | Pour both of the ingredients into a shot glass. Drink it straight back.
STILETTO | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey 1 teaspoon lime juice 1⁄2 ounce amaretto | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
STRONGARM | 2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TEACHER’S PET | 11⁄2 ounces blended 2 dashes bitters whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth | Pour the whiskey, dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, and bitters into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
THUNDERCLAP | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 ounce gin whiskey 1 ounce brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TIGER JUICE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whisky 1 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
T.L.C. | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon Dubonnet whiskey Rouge 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon Ricard 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Cointreau, Ricard, Dubonnet, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist and the cherry.
T.N.T. | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 ounce anisette whiskey | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TOWER TOPPER | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier whisky 1⁄2 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TURTLE | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine whisky | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TWIN PEAKS | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1 teaspoon Cointreau or whiskey triple sec 1⁄2 ounce Dubonnet 1 lemon twist Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Dubonnet, and Cointreau. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
TWO TURTLES | 2 ounces Canadian 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or whisky triple sec 1⁄2 ounce B & B 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whisky, B & B, and Cointreau. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
WHISKEY COLLINS | 2 ounces blended 3 ounces club soda whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1 orange slice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the whiskey, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
WHISKEY COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 1 maraschino cherry sugar 1 orange slice 3 ounces club soda 1 lemon slice Crushed ice 2 ounces blended whiskey In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost | full. Add the whiskey. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange and lemon slices.
WHISKEY COOLER | 2 ounces blended 1 lemon wedge whiskey 4 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the whiskey and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
WHISKEY CRUSTA | 1 tablespoon superfine sugar 1 lemon wedge Peel of 1 orange, cut into a spiral Crushed ice 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 2 teaspoons maraschino liqueur 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a wine goblet with the lemon wedge and dip the glass into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lemon. Place the orange peel spiral in the goblet and drape one end of it over the rim. Fill the glass with crushed ice. In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the goblet.
WHISKEY DAISY | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
WHISKEY FIX | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces blended sugar whiskey 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon slice Crushed ice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, lemon juice, and water. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Add the whiskey. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the lemon slice.
WHISKEY FLIP | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1 egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1 teaspoon light cream 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
WHISKEY MILK PUNCH | 2 ounces blended whiskey 1 ounce dark crème de cacao 2 ounces milk 1⁄4 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, crème de cacao, and milk. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
WHISKEY SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce tawny port  sugar 2 teaspoons water 11⁄2 ounces blended whiskey Crushed ice 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon 21⁄2 ounces club soda | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and whiskey. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the port on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and dust with the nutmeg and cinnamon.
WHISKEY SLING | 1 teaspoon superfine 2 ounces blended sugar whiskey 2 teaspoons water 1 lemon twist 1 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sugar, water, lemon juice, and whiskey. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
WHISKEY SMASH | 4 fresh mint sprigs 1 teaspoon superfine 21⁄2 ounces blended whiskey 1 lemon twist sugar 1 ounce club soda | In an old-fashioned glass, muddle the mint sprigs lightly with the sugar and club soda. Fill the glass with ice cubes. Add the whiskey. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
WHISKEY SOUR | 2 ounces blended 1 orange slice whiskey 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the whiskey, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
WHISKEY SWIZZLE | 11⁄2 ounces lime juice 1 dash bitters 1 teaspoon superfine Crushed ice  sugar 3 ounces club soda 2 ounces blended whiskey | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lime juice, sugar, whiskey, and bitters. Shake well. Almost fill a collins glass with crushed ice and stir until the glass is frosted. Strain the mixture in the shaker into the glass and add the club soda. Serve with a swizzle stick.
WHISKEY TO GO | 11⁄2 ounces blended 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice whiskey 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce gin sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
WILD JACKALOPE | 11⁄2 ounces Canadian 1 teaspoon Pernod whisky 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce peppermint  schnapps In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the whisky, schnapps, and Pernod. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist. 10  TROPICAL DRINKS What makes a drink tropical? Pineapples, coconuts, orchids, parasols, and plastic monkeys for starters. These exotic potions are guaranteed to transport you to someplace in the Tropics, where vines grow haphazardly around the pillar next to your table and flaming kebabs dance around the dining room in the hands of exotic-looking waiters. Mai Tais and Zombies are bewitching names for drinks with exceptional ingredients and curious gar- nishes. They are perfect for a poolside party in the dog days of summer, as an accompaniment to a trop- ical theme dinner, or to serve at a cocktail party for some favorite friends. Tropical drinks usually have two things in com- mon: They are great thirst quenchers, containing  many exotic fruit juices and ice in great quantities, and they can be very high in alcohol content. These two qualities are rarely found in other drinks, which are generally either light thirst quenchers or Bac- chanalian potions. | Try some of these drinks, sit back with the sun beating on your face, and sip them through a long straw while you imagine some Indiana Jones type of character battling through the perils of the jungle to bring you the exotic ingredients that you just took from your refrigerator. It’s a refreshing way to spend a lazy afternoon.
AZULUNA | 2 ounces light rum 11⁄2 ounces coconut cream 1 ounce blue Curaçao 1 cup crushed ice 4 ounces pineapple juice 1 plastic monkey | In a blender, combine the rum, Curaçao, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the monkey.
BANANA COLADA | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce coconut cream 1 ounce light rum 1 cup crushed ice 1 very ripe banana, sliced 1 maraschino cherry 4 ounces pineapple juice 1 pineapple slice | In a blender, combine the dark rum, light rum, banana, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the cherry and the pineapple slice.
BANANA DAIQUIRI | 2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 1 very ripe banana, sliced 1 cup crushed ice In a blender, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass. 1 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine | sugar
CARIBBEAN BREEZE | 2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes 1 teaspoon Rose’s lime juice 6 ounces pineapple juice 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 pineapple slice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, crème de bananes, Rose’s lime juice, pineapple juice, orange bitters, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with crushed ice. Garnish with the cherry and the pineapple slice.
CHI CHI | 2 ounces vodka 1 cup crushed ice 5 ounces pineapple juice 1 maraschino cherry 11⁄2 ounces coconut 1 pineapple slice cream | In a blender, combine the vodka, pineapple juice, coconut cream, and crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the cherry and the pineapple slice.
DISCOVERY BAY | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 2 ounces lemon sherbet 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 2 ounces ginger ale triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, Cointreau, and lemon sherbet. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale.
FRUIT RUM FRAPPE | 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1⁄2 cup crushed ice bananes 1⁄2 teaspoon crème de cassis | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well. Pour into a cocktail glass.
GAUGUIN | 2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon lime juice 1 ounce passion fruit 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine syrup sugar 1 ounce lemon juice | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients with 6 ice cubes. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
HAWAIIAN COCKTAIL | 2 ounces gin 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HONOLULU COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1 teaspoon orange juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce pineapple juice sugar 1 teaspoon lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HULA HOOP | 11⁄2 ounces gin 1⁄2 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JAMAICA HOP | 11⁄2 ounces Kahlúa 11⁄2 ounces heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce white crème de cacao | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JAMAICAN FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 teaspoon superfine 11⁄2 ounces pineapple sugar juice 4 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, pineapple juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
KING OF KINGSTON | 1 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce crème de bananes 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce heavy cream In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. 1 teaspoon grapefruit juice | 1 teaspoon grenadine
LAZY AFTERNOON | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce light rum 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 4 ounces pineapple juice Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 pineapple slice | Pour the dark rum, light rum, cherry brandy, and pineapple juice into a highball glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the pineapple slice.
LISTENING TO THE DRUMS OF FEYNMAN | 1 ounce dark rum 2 ounces light cream 1⁄2 ounce light rum Crushed ice 1 ounce Tia Maria 1/8 teaspoon nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dark rum, light rum, Tia Maria, and cream. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice. Dust with the nutmeg.
LIZBUTH | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 2 ounces half-and-half 1⁄2 ounce coconut cream 1 maraschino cherry | In a blender, combine the rum, amaretto, coconut cream, pineapple juice, and half-and-half with 6 ice cubes. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass and garnish with the cherry.
MAI TAI | 1 ounce light rum 2 teaspoons orgeat syrup 1 ounce añejo rum 2 teaspoons grenadine 1 ounce Cointreau or Crushed ice triple sec 1 orchid or paper parasol 1⁄2 ounce lime juice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the light rum, añejo rum, Cointreau, lime juice, orgeat syrup, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass half-filled with crushed ice. | Float the orchid or parasol on top. Serve with 4 short straws.
MICKEY’S FIN | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 ounce Malibu rum 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1 ounce grapefruit juice bananes 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes.
PIÑA COLADA | 2 ounces light rum 1 cup crushed ice 5 ounces pineapple juice 1 maraschino cherry 11⁄2 ounces coconut 1 pineapple slice cream | In a blender, combine the rum, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass and garnish with the cherry and the pineapple slice.
POLYNESIAN COCKTAIL | 1 teaspoon powdered 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy  sugar 1 lime wedge 11⁄2 ounces vodka 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry | Place the sugar in a saucer. Rub the rim of a cocktail glass with the lime wedge and dip it into the sugar to coat the rim thoroughly; discard the lime. In a shaker half-filled ice cubes, combine the vodka, cherry brandy, lime juice, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into the cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
RASTA’S REVENGE | 1 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce ruby port 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
REGGAE | 2 ounces vodka 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce crème de 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine bananes 1 orange slice 1 ounce orange juice 1 pineapple wedge 1⁄2 ounce grapefruit juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce pineapple juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vodka, crème de bananes, orange juice, grapefruit juice, pineapple juice, orange bitters, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice, pineapple wedge, and cherry.
SACRIFICE | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce cranberry juice 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce orange juice  1⁄2 ounce white crème de 2 dashes orange bitters cacao 1 cup crushed ice 1 teaspoon coconut cream 1 orange slice 2 ounces pineapple juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a blender, combine the dark rum, light rum, crème de cacao, coconut cream, pineapple juice, cranberry juice, orange juice, and orange bitters with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
SCORPION | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 1⁄2 ounce orgeat syrup 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 cup crushed ice 11⁄2 ounces orange juice 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a blender, combine the rum, brandy, orange juice, lemon juice, and orgeat syrup with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
SHARPLES | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce peppermint schnapps | Pour both of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice. Stir well.
STRAWBERRY COLADA | 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce light rum 5 overripe strawberries 4 ounces pineapple juice 1 pineapple wedge 1 ounce coconut cream 1 cup crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry | In a blender, combine the dark rum, light rum, strawberries, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass and garnish with the cherry and the pineapple wedge.
STRAWBERRY DAIQUIRI | 2 ounces light rum 1 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine triple sec sugar 6 overripe strawberries 1 cup crushed ice | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients with the crushed ice. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
SWIMMING ASHORE FOR THE SONGS | OF SUNRISE 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec 3 ounces grapefruit juice 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 2 teaspoons grenadine Crushed ice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass half-filled with crushed ice.
TAHITI CLUB | 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce dark rum 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon maraschino liqueur  1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
THE GREEN-TAILED DRAGON OF THE | MAROON MORNING 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon orgeat syrup 1⁄2 ounce melon liqueur 1 cup crushed ice 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce lime juice | In a blender, combine the rum, melon liqueur, pineapple juice, lime juice, and orgeat syrup with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Drop the cherry brandy into the center.
TIDAL WAVE | 1 ounce light rum 2 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 1 teaspoon grenadine  1⁄2 ounce vodka 1 cup crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce tequila | Put all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass. Stand well away from drinker!
TROPICAL RAINSTORM | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy triple sec 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
YELLOW BIRD | 11⁄2 ounces light rum 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ZOCOLO | 1 ounce dark rum 2 ounces club soda 1⁄2 ounce tequila 1 orange slice 2 ounces pineapple juice 1 pineapple wedge 2 ounces grapefruit juice 1 maraschino cherry | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the rum, tequila, pineapple juice, and grapefruit juice. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda and stir well. Garnish with the orange slice, pineapple wedge, and cherry.
ZOMBIE | 1 ounce light rum 1 ounce añejo rum 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy 1 orange slice 1 cup crushed ice 2 teaspoons 151° proof rum 2 ounces orange juice 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce pineapple juice 1 mint spring 1 ounce lime juice 1 teaspoon superfine sugar In a blender, combine the light rum, añejo rum, dark rum, apricot brandy, orange juice, pineapple juice, lime juice, and sugar with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Float the 151° proof rum on top. Garnish with the orange slice, cherry, and mint spring. 11  APERITIFS The word aperitif is actually derived from the Latin word aperire, which means “to open.” Appropri- ately, an aperitif is a drink that is used as an opening to a meal, and many drinks can fall into this category. If you choose to drink a quart of stout as a prelude to dinner, then a quart of stout becomes an aperitif (indeed, 12 ounces of good stout makes for a quite superb opening to a meal). Generally speaking, however, aromatized wines and dry sherries are con- sidered to be proper aperitifs. Since dry sherries are discussed in the Wine Drinks chapter, this chapter will deal just with aromatized wines. Wines can be divided into four categories: still, sparkling, forti- fied, and aromatized. If you are one of the many people who just can’t abide the taste of coffee without some sugar or arti-  ficial sweetener in it, then you will understand per- fectly how aromatized wines came into being. Sour wine was sweetened with honey or herbs by the ancient Greeks and Romans in order to make it more palatable. The practice of adding herbs to wine in order to preserve their medicinal qualities also played a great part in the creation of aromat- ized wines. AROMATIZED WINES Most aromatized wines are a variation on dry ver- mouths with a few distinctions: 1.	They are generally sweeter, containing more mistelle (in simple terms, brandy combined with grape juice). 2.	Red aromatized wines are usually made from a red base wine. 3.	Quinine is generally added in making aro- matized wines. Examples of popular aromatized wines include: Campari, Dubonnet, Lillet, Cynar, St Raphaël, Punt e Mes, Amer Picon, and Byrrh. VERMOUTH Vermouths are aromatized wines, but aromatized wines are not necessarily vermouths. The word ver- mouth comes from the German wermut, which lit- erally means “wormwood.” Italy produced the first vermouth in the late eighteenth century; it was made from white wines infused with herbs to make a sweetish aromatized wine. In the early nineteenth century, a drier version of vermouth was produced in France and ever since, sweet vermouth is known as Italian vermouth and dry vermouth is known as French, even though both Italy and France produce both types of vermouths. Almost every wine-pro- ducing nation makes vermouth of both types, sweet and dry, or Italian and French. The best dry vermouth is made by adding aged mistelle (see above) to aged white wine. This mix- ture is then steeped with herbs, roots, flowers, spices, fruit peels, and probably a host of other in- gredients. Each company guards their recipes jeal- ously. This infused wine is then cut with basic wine and brandy is added to it. The mixture is put into vats and chilled until the tartaric acid crystallizes. The vermouth is then drained off and bottled. | Sweet vermouth also is made from white wine, usually sweeter white wines, and sweetening agents are added along with quinine and some caramel for coloring.
AGINCOURT | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce amaretto 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ALLIED REQUIREMENTS | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Pernod 1 ounce gin 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ALLIES COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon kümmel 3⁄4 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
AMER PICON COCKTAIL | 2 ounces Amer Picon 1 teaspoon grenadine 11⁄2 ounces lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
AMERICANO | 11⁄2 ounces Campari 4 ounces club soda 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1 lemon twist vermouth | Pour the Campari, vermouth, and soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
ANTE | 1 ounce Dubonnet Rouge 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 3⁄4 ounce applejack triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
APPLE ROUGE | 11⁄2 ounces Dubonnet 1 ounce applejack Rouge | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BALANCHINE’S BELLE | 11⁄2 ounces Dubonnet 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth Rouge 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Dubonnet and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BEANSY’S BATTLEGROUND | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1⁄2 teaspoon Pernod vermouth 1 dash bitters 1 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce peppermint schnapps | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
BELLE OF ELLIS ISLAND | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce brandy sugar 1 teaspoon Cointreau or 2 dashes orange bitters triple sec 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, brandy, Cointreau, sugar, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BIG RED | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 3⁄4 ounce dry vermouth Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin 1 orange slice | Pour the sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, sloe gin, and orange bitters into an old-fashioned glass twothirds filled with crushed ice. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
BITTERSWEET COCKTAIL | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BLONDE JENNY | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce gin 1 orange slice 1⁄2 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, orange juice, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the orange slice.
BOSWELLIAN BOOSTER | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce brandy sugar  2 dashes orange bitters 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, brandy, bitters, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry.
BOYD OF THE LOCH | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 1 lemon twist 1 ounce Scotch | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth and Scotch. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BRESNAN | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1 teaspoon crème de vermouth cassis 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BURFENTAILOR | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 maraschino cherry 2 teaspoons Pernod | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, brandy, Pernod, lemon juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the cherry.
BURN’S NIGHT SPECIAL | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1 ounce Scotch whisky vermouth 2 teaspoons Bénédictine | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHELSEA | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 3⁄4 ounce bourbon triple sec 1 teaspoon blackberry 2 teaspoons lemon juice brandy 1 lemon twist | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, bourbon, blackberry brandy, Cointreau, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
CLARIDGE’S | 1 ounce dry vermouth 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 3⁄4 ounce gin triple sec 2 teaspoons apricot brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CUYAHOGA COCKTAIL | 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 3⁄4 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine both vermouths and the gin. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
DANCIN’ BONES | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 2 teaspoons cherry 2 teaspoons gin brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DIPLOMAT | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon maraschino  liqueur | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, maraschino liqueur, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
DRY NEGRONI | 1 ounce Campari 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 ounce gin 1 lemon twist | Pour the Campari, gin, and vermouth into an oldfashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
DUBONNET FIZZ | 2 ounces Dubonnet 2 teaspoons cherry Rouge brandy 1 ounce orange juice 3 ounces club soda 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Dubonnet, orange juice, lemon juice, and cherry brandy. Shake well. Pour into a highball glass and top with the club soda. Stir well.
DUBONNET COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Dubonnet 1 dash bitters Rouge 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Dubonnet, gin, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
EARL OF SARDINIA | 11⁄2 ounces Campari 1 ounce pineapple juice 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis 1 teaspoon grenadine 3 ounces grapefruit juice Crushed ice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with crushed ice.
EVANS RESCUES THE DAMSEL OF GARSTANG TOWER | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce strawberry 1 ounce dry vermouth liqueur 1 ounce gin 2 dashes orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FARTHINGALE | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 dash bitters 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist 3⁄4 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, gin, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
FERRARI | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 dash bitters 3⁄4 ounce amaretto 1 lemon twist | Pour the vermouth, amaretto, and bitters into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
FRENCH KISS | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth vermouth 1 lemon twist | Pour the sweet vermouth and dry vermouth into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon twist.
GADZOOKS | 1 ounce dry vermouth 2 teaspoons cherry 1 ounce apricot brandy brandy 1 ounce gin 1 teaspoon lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
GLADYS DELIGHT | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 teaspoon sweet 4 ounces ginger ale vermouth 1 lemon twist | Pour the dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, grenadine, and ginger ale into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
GO-FOR-BROKE COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 dash bitters 3⁄4 ounce gin 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
GRACELAND | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 dash bitters 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce Scotch | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, Scotch, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
GREEN GABLES COCKTAIL | Crushed ice 1 ounce gin 11⁄2 ounces sweet 2 teaspoons green vermouth Chartreuse | In a mixing glass half-filled with crushed ice, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
HEAD-FOR-THE-HILLS | 2 ounces dry vermouth 2 ounces club soda 1⁄2 ounce white Curaçao 1 lemon twist | Pour the vermouth, Curaçao, and club soda into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
HILGERT COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon grapefruit 3⁄4 ounce gin juice 1⁄2 teaspoon maraschino 1 dash bitters liqueur | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
JEFF TRACY | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 ounce gin 1 teaspoon sweet 1 ounce cherry brandy vermouth 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, gin, and cherry brandy. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
JOYCE OF HILLHOUSE | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1 dash bitters vermouth 1 lemon twist 1 ounce Scotch | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, Scotch, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
KAYTEE | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Pernod 1 ounce dry sherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
KING KENNETH | 11⁄2 ounces Campari 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce peach schnapps 4 ounces tonic water 1 ounce orange juice 1 lemon twist In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Campari, peach schnapps, orange juice, and lemon | juice. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
KNOCKOUT COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon white crème 1 ounce gin de menthe 1⁄2 ounce anisette 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, anisette, and crème de menthe. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
LADY EVELYN | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 1 ounce gin triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LADY MADONNA | 11⁄2 ounces Dubonnet 1 ounce dry vermouth Rouge 1 lemon twist | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Dubonnet and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the lemon twist.
LEO THE LION | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 teaspoon white crème 1⁄2 ounce brandy de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
LILLET COCKTAIL | 2 ounces Lillet 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Lillet and gin. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
LYING WITH THE TIGRESS | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 1 dash orange bitters 1 ounce light rum 1⁄4 teaspoon Rose’s lime juice | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAGIQUE | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 2 teaspoons crème de 1 ounce gin cassis | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MARY’S DELIGHT | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 1 ounce brandy vermouth 1 dash orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MATINÉE | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 tablespoons orange 3⁄4 ounce gin juice 1⁄2 ounce green 1 dash orange bitters Chartreuse | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAUREEN’S DREAM | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 teaspoons anisette 1 ounce dry vermouth | In an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well.
MAYFLOWER COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1 teaspoon Pernod 1 teaspoon Cointreau or triple sec 2 dashes orange bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MAYOR BILLY | 3⁄4 ounce sweet vermouth 2 teaspoons orange juice 3⁄4 ounce dry vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MERCENARY | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 teaspoon green crème 1⁄2 ounce Armagnac de menthe | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
MOI? | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 4 ounces tonic water 2 teaspoons crème de 1 lemon wedge cassis | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, cassis, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water. Stir well and garnish with the lemon wedge.
MUCH FUSS FOR THE CONQUERING | HERO 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspoon pineapple  3⁄4 ounce applejack 2 teaspoons apricot brandy juice 1 teaspoon lemon juice 2 dashes orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
NEGRONI | 1 ounce Campari 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 ounce gin 1 lemon twist | Pour the Campari, gin, and vermouth into an oldfashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
PAMMY KAY | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 1⁄2 teaspoon lime juice  1⁄2 ounce apricot brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PHOEBE SNOW | 2 ounces Dubonnet 11⁄2 ounces brandy Rouge 1 teaspoon Pernod | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PIGGOT’S PREFERENCE | 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth 2 teaspoons Cointreau or  1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort 2 teaspoons light rum triple sec 1 dash orange bitters 1 maraschino cherry In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the vermouth, Southern Comfort, rum, Cointr- | eau, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
SACRED MOUNTAIN OF THE | PEKINGESE CLOUD GODS 1 ounce dry vermouth 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Southern 2 teaspoons blue Curaçao Comfort | Pour the vermouth and Southern Comfort into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Add the orange juice; do not stir. Drop the blue Curaçao into the center of the drink. Add straws and drink from the bottom up.
SAME OLD SONG | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 teaspoon lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 dash orange bitters 1 ounce gin 1 orange slice 1 ounce orange juice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, gin, orange juice, | lemon juice, and orange bitters. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the orange slice.
SEETHING JEALOUSY | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 1⁄2 ounce Scotch 1⁄2 ounce orange juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SHOOING AWAY THE TRIBES OF THE NIGHT | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄4 teaspoon cherry 3⁄4 ounce brandy brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1 dash bitters triple sec 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄4 teaspoon Ricard 1 orange slice Pour the vermouth, brandy, Cointreau, Ricard, cherry brandy, and bitters into an old-fashioned | glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
STRONG-ARMED CHRIS RETURNS TO | THE DEN 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon sweet vermouth 3⁄4 ounce white crème de cacao 3⁄4 ounce maraschino liqueur 1 maraschino cherry | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the dry vermouth, sweet vermouth, crème de cacao, and maraschino liqueur. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.
SWEET NAN | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 teaspoons Bénédictine 1 ounce brandy | Pour all of the ingredients into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
TANNERSWORTH | 1 ounce Dubonnet Rouge 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
THANKSGIVING COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon crème de 3⁄4 ounce gin cassis 3⁄4 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TRINITY COCKTAIL | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1 ounce gin 1 ounce dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TRIPLET COCKTAIL | 1 ounce dry vermouth 2 teaspoons lemon juice 1 ounce gin 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce peach brandy | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, peach brandy, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
TRUE TRIXIE | 2 ounces Campari 3⁄4 ounce Cointreau or 3⁄4 ounce dry vermouth triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
VERMOUTH CASSIS | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 lemon twist 2 teaspoons crème de cassis | Pour the vermouth and cassis into a wine goblet with about 4 ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
VERMOUTH CASSIS TALL | 2 ounces dry vermouth 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis 4 ounces club soda | Pour the vermouth and cassis into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Stir well and garnish with the lemon twist.
VERMOUTH COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces sweet 2 dashes orange bitters vermouth 1 maraschino cherry 11⁄2 ounces dry vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sweet vermouth, dry vermouth, and orange bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the cherry.
WARRIOR | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Pernod 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce brandy triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WEDDING BELL COCKTAIL | 1 ounce Rouge 3⁄4 ounce gin 2 teaspoons cherry brandy Dubonnet 1 tablespoon orange juice 1 dash orange bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WESTERMAN SINGS THE BLUES | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1 teaspoon Pernod 1⁄2 ounce gin 1 orange slice | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the vermouth, gin, and Pernod. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass and garnish with the orange slice.
WILFRED’S WEATHER | 1 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 teaspoon Ricard 3⁄4 ounce gin 1 dash bitters | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WYSOOSLER | 1 ounce sweet vermouth 2 dashes orange bitters 3⁄4 ounce gin 3⁄4 ounce green Chartreuse In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. 12  CORDIALS In America, a cordial, usually served as an after-din- ner drink, is what the rest of the world calls a li- queur—a sweetened liquor. In most other English- speaking countries, cordials are concentrated fruit juices with no alcoholic content. Cordials form the base of some well-known cock- tails: the Pink Squirrel, the Apricot Sour, and the Grasshopper. These sweetened liquors were first known to the French as liqueurs de dessert, and they are probably as old as any hill you may care to men- tion. They were originally concocted by the ancient alchemists as potions for medicinal purposes. Infus- ing alcohol with remedial herbs, spices, fruits, and barks was a good way of preserving their medicinal qualities.  Right up until the end of the eighteenth century, people concocted their own liqueurs at home, adding sugar and fruits from their gardens to brandy or whatever other liquor was available. PRODUCTION Cordials can be divided into two basic categories: fruit cordials, which can take on the color of the fruit (cherry and blackberry brandy), but may be colorless if made only with the peel or seed of the fruit (triple sec); plant cordials, which are generally colorless (anisette), but can take on the color of one of the herbs and roots used in a blend (Bénédictine and Chartreuse). The rule governing cordial states that a cordial must contain at least 2 1⁄2 percent sugar of any type. In fact, most of them contain 30 to 40 percent sugar. Cordials are made from any base spirit—rum, gin, vodka, or the like—that is then flavored with fruit, roots, herbs, bark, seeds, flowers, peels, or juices. The following methods of introducing these flavors differ from one to another and are usually governed by how much time and money the manufacturer wants to spend. Maceration: Maceration is similar to infusion and simply means that the flavoring agent is immersed in a base spirit until the flavor is absorbed by that spirit. This process can take as long as a year and is used to flavor liquors with ingredients that would lose flavor if heated. Infusion: In an infusion, the flavoring agent is steeped in a heated base liquor, and the temperature is maintained for several days. The resultant liqueur is very flavorful and much more inexpensive to pro- duce than macerated liqueurs. Percolation: This method of flavoring liqueurs may employ hot or cold techniques. The flavoring agent is placed in a sievelike container, and the liquor is then either bubbled through it for weeks at a time or boiled underneath it, so that the vapors rise, collect the flavors, and then condense back into the liquor. Distillation: This method requires an infused liquor to be redistilled, usually under a vacuum in a pot still. TYPES OF CORDIALS A list of all known cordials, or liqueurs, with ex- planations of their contents could take up a book in itself. Here are a few of the better-known ones, whose names may require explanation. AMARETTO Usually made in Italy from apricot stones, which produce an almond fla- vor. ANIS OR ANISETTE Flavored with aniseed, which imparts a licorice flavor. Replaces the long-banned absinthe. BENEDICTINE Flavored with 27 herbs, plants, and peels. CHARTREUSE Flavored with 130 herbs and spices. COINTREAU A dry orange liqueur that is a form of Curaçao. CREME DE BANANES Uses artificial ba- nana flavoring. CREME DE CACAO Flavored with vanilla and cacao (cocoa) beans. CREME DE CASSIS Flavored with blackcur- rants. CREME DE MENTHE Usually made from peppermint. The green and white varieties dif- fer only in color. CREME DE NOYAUX Made from fruit stones, producing an almond flavor. CURAÇAO Flavored with orange peel. DANZIG GOLDWASSER Flavored with caraway and aniseed with real gold flakes ad- ded. FRANGELICO Flavored with hazelnut ber- ries and herbs. GALLIANO Flavored with herbs, roots, and spices. GRAND MARNIER Orange peel steeped in Cognac; an elegant, richer form of Curaçao. IRISH MIST Flavored with honey and herbs. KAHLUA Flavored with coffee. KUMMEL Flavored with caraway seeds. MARASCHINO Flavored with Dalmatian Marasca cherries. MALIBU Jamaican rum flavored with coconut. MIDORI Flavored with Japanese melons. OUZO Greek aniseed-flavored liqueur; rather drier than anisette. ROCK AND RYE Rye whiskey flavored with rock candy syrup and fruits. SAMBUCA Flavored with elderbush, giving a licorice flavor. SLOE GIN Flavored with sloe berries from the blackthorn bush. STREGA Flavored with over 70 herbs and barks. TIA MARIA Flavored with coffee and spices. TRIPLE SEC A highly refined form of Cura- cao. | AMARETTO
ALABAMA SLAMMER | 11⁄2 ounces amaretto 1⁄2 ounce sloe gin 1 ounce Southern 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice Comfort | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
AMARETTO SOUR | 2 ounces amaretto 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the amaretto, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain | into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
BOCCIE BALL | 2 ounces amaretto 5 ounces orange juice | Pour the amaretto and orange juice into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
PINK PANTHER | 1 ounce amaretto 1 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce vodka 2 ounces light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
TOASTED ALMOND | 11⁄2 ounces amaretto 2 ounces light cream 1 ounce Kahlúa In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fash- ioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. | APPLEJACK
JACK ROSE | 2 ounces applejack 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce lemon juice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | APRICOT BRANDY
A.B.C. | 11⁄2 ounces apricot 1 ounce Scotch brandy 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
APRICOT FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces apricot 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine brandy sugar 1 ounce lemon juice 4 ounces club soda | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the apricot brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
APRICOT SOUR | 2 ounces apricot brandy 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the apricot brandy, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass. Garnish with the orange slice and the cherry.
ON THE SQUARE | 1 ounce apricot brandy 1⁄2 ounce Calvados 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
PARADISE | 11⁄2 ounces apricot 1 ounce orange juice brandy 1⁄2 teaspoon sweet 1⁄2 ounce gin vermouth In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | BAILEY’S IRISH CREAM
BLACKPOOL TOWER | 2 ounces Bailey’s Irish 3⁄4 ounce apricot brandy Cream 1 teaspoon gin | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHERRY KISS | 1 ounce Bailey’s Irish 1 ounce Chambord Cream | Pour the Bailey’s into a pousse café glass. Pouring slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon, float the Chambord on top of the Bailey’s.
DIRTY GIRL SCOUT | 1 ounce Bailey’s Irish 1 ounce vodka Cream 1 teaspoon green crème 1 ounce Kahlúa de menthe | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
IRISH FLAG | 1 ounce green crème de 1 ounce brandy menthe 1 ounce Bailey’s Irish Cream | Pour the crème de menthe into a pousse café glass. Pouring slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon, float the Irish cream on the crème de menthe and then the brandy on top of the Irish cream.
MORNING WITH THE LEPRECHAUNS | 11⁄2 ounces Bailey’s Irish 3 ounces cold strong Cream coffee 1 ounce Irish whiskey Crushed ice 2 teaspoons cherry brandy Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass al- most filled with crushed ice. Stir well. | B& B
B & B STINGER | 21⁄2 ounces B & B 1⁄2 ounce white crème de  menthe In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the B & B and crème de menthe. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | BENEDICTINE
SILENT MONK | 1 ounce Bénédictine 1 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | BLUE CURAÇAO
BARROW BLUES | 1 ounce blue Curaçao 11⁄2 ounces pineapple 1⁄2 ounce light rum juice 1⁄2 ounce añejo rum 1 teaspoon coconut cream  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fash- ioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. | CHARTREUSE
GOLDEN FLEECE | 11⁄2 ounces yellow 1 ounce Danzig Chartreuse Goldwasser In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine both ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cock- tail glass. | CHERRY BRANDY
CHERRIES FROM HEAVEN | 11⁄2 ounces cherry brandy 4 ounces tonic water 1 ounce lemon juice 1 lime wedge 1 dash bitters | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the cherry brandy, lemon juice, and bitters. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the tonic water. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
CHERRY FLASH COLA | 1 ounce cherry brandy 4 ounces cola 1⁄2 ounce maraschino 1 maraschino cherry liqueur Pour the cherry brandy, maraschino liqueur, and cola into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the cherry. | COINTREAU
DUVAL | 2 ounces Cointreau 1 ounce Sambuca  In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine both of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | CREME DE BANANES
BANANARAMA | 1 ounce crème de 1 dash bitters bananes 1 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BANSHEE | 11⁄2 ounces crème de bananes 1 ounce white crème de cacao 1 ounce light cream  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | CREME DE CACAO
GOLDEN CADILLAC | 11⁄2 ounces white crème 3⁄4 ounce Galliano de cacao 1 ounce light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SLAMDANCER | 1 ounce white crème de 1⁄2 ounce Kahlúa  cacao 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 2 teaspoons peppermint schnapps 1 ounce light cream In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | CREME DE MENTHE
CRÈME DE MENTHE FRAPPE | Crushed ice 2 ounces green crème de menthe | Fill a pousse café glass with crushed ice and simply pour the crème de menthe into the glass. Using the same method, a frappe may be made from any cordial.
DIANA | Crushed ice 1⁄2 ounce brandy 2 ounces white crème de menthe | Fill a snifter with crushed ice and pour the crème de menthe into the glass. Pouring slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon, float the brandy on the crème de menthe.
GRASSHOPPER | 1 ounce green crème de 1 ounce light cream menthe 1 ounce white crème de cacao In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | CREME DE NOYAUX
PINK SQUIRREL | 11⁄2 ounces crème de noyaux 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1 ounce light cream  cacao In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | DRAMBUIE
ROGER SWIMS A MILE | 11⁄2 ounces Drambuie 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1⁄2 ounce blended 1 lemon twist whiskey In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the Drambuie, whiskey, and vermouth. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist. | FRANGELICO
END OF MY ROPE | 11⁄2 ounces Frangelico 1 ounce pineapple juice 2 teaspoons crème de 1 dash bitters bananes | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FRIAR TUCK | 11⁄2 ounces Frangelico 1 teaspoon grenadine 2 teaspoons brandy 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce lemon juice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Frangelico, brandy, lemon juice, and grenadine. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry. | GALLIANO
GOLDEN DREAM | 11⁄2 ounces Galliano 1⁄2 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1⁄2 ounce light cream triple sec In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | GRAND MARNIER
B-52 | 1 ounce Grand Marnier 1⁄2 ounce Bailey’s Irish 3⁄4 ounce Kahlúa Cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
CHUNNEL COCKTAIL | 11⁄2 ounces Grand Marni-1⁄2 ounce sweet ver- er mouth 1 ounce gin 1 dash bitters In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | KAHLUA
COFFEE STICK | 11⁄2 ounces Kahlúa 1 ounce heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce Sambuca | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
DOUGLAS TOWN | 2 ounces Kahlúa 1⁄2 ounce lime juice  1 ounce tequila | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
KING ALPHONSE | 21⁄2 ounces Kahlúa 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream | Pour the Kahlúa into a pousse café glass. Pour the cream slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the Kahlúa.
MUDDY RIVER | 21⁄2 ounces Kahlúa 11⁄2 ounces light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Kahlúa and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ROOT BEER | 1 ounce Kahlúa 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce Galliano sugar  1 ounce lemon juice 3 ounces cola | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Kahlúa, Galliano, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the cola. Stir well. Yes, it tastes like root beer.
SOMBRERO | 2 ounces Kahlúa 2 ounces light cream | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Kahlúa and cream. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
WITCH’S TIT | 21⁄2 ounces Kahlúa 1⁄2 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce heavy cream Pour the Kahlú into a pousse café glass. Pour the cream slowly and carefully over the back of a tea- spoon so that it floats on top of the Kahlúa. Place the cherry in the center of the cream. | MELON LIQUEUR (MIDORI)
BELLE MELON | 11⁄2 ounces melon liqueur 1 ounce light cream 1⁄2 ounce vodka | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
FOCAL POINT | 11⁄2 ounces melon liqueur 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1 ounce light rum 1 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the melon liqueur, rum, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
GREEN GODDESS | 11⁄2 ounces melon liqueur 4 ounces lemon-lime 1 ounce Scotch soda 1 teaspoon dry vermouth | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
MAN IN THE MELON | 11⁄2 ounces melon liqueur 2 ounces lemon-lime  1⁄2 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec soda 2 ounces club soda 1 lime wedge | Pour the melon liqueur, vodka, Cointreau, lemonlime soda, and club soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
MELON BALL | 1 ounce melon liqueur 3 ounces pineapple juice 1 ounce vodka Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass al- most filled with ice cubes. Stir well. | PEPPERMINT SCHNAPPS
APOCALYPSE | 1 ounce peppermint 1⁄2 ounce bourbon schnapps 1⁄2 ounce vodka 3⁄4 ounce Kahlúa | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BLUE GLORY | 2 ounces peppermint 5 ounces lemon-lime schnapps soda 1⁄2 ounce blue Curaçao | Pour all of the ingredients into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
PEPPERMINT TWIST | 1 ounce peppermint 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de schnapps cacao 1 ounce Kahlúa  In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | POUSSE CAFES
POUSSE CAFÉ | 1⁄2  ounce grenadine 	1⁄2  ounce yellow Chartreuse 	1⁄2  ounce crème de cassis 	1⁄2  ounce white crème de menthe 1⁄2 ounce green Chartreuse 1⁄2 ounce brandy | Starting with the grenadine and adding each ingredient in the order given, pour the liquors slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon into a pousse café glass so that each one floats on top of the last one in layers.
POUSSE CAFÉÀ LA FRANCAISE | 1⁄2 ounce green 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy Chartreuse 1⁄2 ounce kümmel 1⁄2 ounce maraschino liqueur | Starting with the Chartreuse and adding each ingredient in the order given, pour the liquors slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon into a pousse café glass so that each one floats on top of the last one in layers.
POUSSE CAFÉ STANDISH | 1⁄2 ounce grenadine 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 1⁄2 ounce white crème de 1⁄2 ounce kümmel menthe 1⁄2 ounce brandy Starting with the grenadine and adding each in- gredient in the order given, pour the liquors slowly and carefully over the back of a teaspoon into a pousse café glass so that each one floats on top of the last one in layers. | SAMBUCA
FERRIS WHEEL | 11⁄2 ounces Sambuca 1 lemon twist 1 ounce brandy | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the Sambuca and brandy. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the lemon twist.
SAMBUCA STRAIGHT | 2 ounces Sambuca 3 coffee beans | Pour the Sambuca into a brandy snifter and float the coffee beans on top. It is important always to use an odd number of coffee beans, as this is an Italian tradition that shows the guest is welcome. An even number of beans denotes an unwelcome guest.
SAMSON | 1⁄2 ounce black Sambuca 1⁄2 ounce amaretto (Opal Nera) 11⁄2 ounces light cream 1⁄2 ounce blackberry  brandy In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass. | SLOE GIN
SLOE GIN FIZZ | 21⁄2 ounces sloe gin 4 ounces club soda 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sloe gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the club soda. Stir well.
SLOE GIN FLIP | 2 ounces sloe gin 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1 egg 1/8 teaspoon grated  1⁄2 teaspoon superfine nutmeg sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the sloe gin, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
SLOEHAND JACKSON | 11⁄2 ounces sloe gin 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce gin 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce vodka 1 teaspoon grenadine In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. | SOUTHERN COMFORT
BRITISH COMFORT | 11⁄2 ounces Southern 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice Comfort 1 ounce orange juice 1⁄2 ounce gin | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
SOUTHERN COMFORT MANHATTAN | 2 ounces Southern 3 dashes bitters Comfort 1 maraschino cherry 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, com- bine the Southern Comfort, vermouth, and bitters. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass. Garnish with the cherry.  13  WINE DRINKS It is not known when wine was first made, although the date is sure to have been very early in the career of Homo sapiens. In addition to the numerous ref- erences to wine made in the Old Testament and by the ancient Greeks over 3,000 years ago, there is also evidence, in the form of grape skins and pips, that suggests wine was made by prehistoric man. Pleas- ure, it seems, came early in the life of our species. Wine can be divided into four categories: still, sparkling, fortified, and aromatized. Since aromat- ized wines are dealt with in the Aperitifs chapter, this section will cover the other three. Still wines can themselves be divided into distinct types: To begin with, there is the obvious red, white, and rosé, or blush. Then consider whether the wine is dry, off-dry (or semidry), or sweet. For purposes of mixing, we  are concerned here with dry wine, which may actu- ally give the illusion of sweetness if it has a lot of fruitiness to it. If you’re looking for a great bottle of Bordeaux or Cabernet Sauvignon to serve at your dinner party on Saturday night, I refer you to one of the excellent references specializing on fine wines listed in my bibliography at the end of this book. For the bar, I suggest searching your local liquor stores for good quality at a budget price. When it’s going to be a large party, don’t turn up your nose at jug wines. California, Spain, France, and Italy make some quite respectable wines in quantity. When the wine is to be mixed with other flavorings and liquors, the subtleties of a fine vintage will be lost. The same goes for sparkling wines. A simple Champagne Cocktail does taste best with an ex- cellent bubbly. But when you begin mixing in a number of other flavors, go for good value. Many countries—and in the case of the United States, states—make fine sparkling wines. Experiment with labels from California, Spain, Italy, and France until you find an inexpensive sparkling wine that has the qualities you enjoy. Fortified wines include Madeira, port, and sherry. Again, quality and price vary widely, and a fabulously expensive vintage port will be lost in a brew of beverages. Try to find a reliable brand that gives you respectable—but not necessarily excep- tional—quality at a decent price. Since I’ve told you how other liquors are made, you can read on to learn something about the pro- duction of these three types of wine, or skip to page 297 to get right to the recipes. PRODUCTION STILL WINE 1. Still wine is simply ordinary noncarbon- ated wine, as opposed to Champagne and other sparkling wines. The grapes are picked and taken to a pressing house, where they are mechanically or manually pressed and destemmed, producing a “must” that is placed in a fermenting vat. 2.	If white wine is being made, the skins are removed from the must. Red wines take their color from the grape skins, which also release tannin into the wine. Rosé wines are made by leaving the skins in the must for a short period, to impart some color. 3.	Thefermentationvatsaresealedtoprevent oxidization, and fermentation begins utiliz- ing either natural yeast that is present on the grapes or yeast added by the wine- maker. 4.	Fermentation stops when the yeast dies, that is, when all of the sugar has been util- ized by the yeast. In the case of sweet wines, however, some sugar remains in the wine after the yeast dies. 5.	Thewineisthenstoredinhugewoodenor stainless steel vats, to age and settle. After about six months the wine is racked, that is, drawn off into fresh wooden casks, leaving behind a residue known as the lees. 6.	The wine is racked three times during the next year. After the final racking the wine is left to age in wooden casks for periods that differ from wine to wine, winemaker to winemaker. 7.	The wine is bottled and shipped or stored for further aging. CHAMPAGNE 1.	Theredorwhitegrapesareharvestedwhen fully ripe and taken to pressing houses, where they are pressed twice. The resultant juice, called the cuvée, is used only for the best Champagnes. 2.	The cuvée is stored at a constant temper- ature while it undergoes its first fermenta- tion. The fermented wine is drawn off into fresh casks, leaving the lees behind, and is chilled to remove bitartrates. 3.	Afterafewmonthsthewineispumpedin- to blending vats, where it is combined with sugar and yeast to conform with its maker’s style. The wine is then bottled, corked, and capped with metal caps similar to those on a beer bottle. 4.	Thebottlesarestoredontheirsides,inspe- cial racks located in chalk caves. Here, the wine undergoes a secondary fermentation due to the added yeast and sugar. 5.	During this secondary fermentation sedi- ment appears in the bottle. To collect it and prevent its marring the wine, the bottles are gradually tilted and turned so that the sedi- ment falls onto the bottom of the cork. 6.	The neck of the bottle is frozen and the metal cup removed. The cork explodes from the bottle, taking the frozen sediment with it. Sweetened mature wine is added to the bottle, and it is recorked for shipping or storage. FORTIFIED WINE Quite simply, this term applies to wine that has been fortified with brandy. Since each type of for- tified wine differs from the next, I will briefly de- scribe each of the main varieties. MADEIRA Made in Madeira, a tiny island off the coast of Por- tugal, Madeira is made from fermented grape juice that is fortified with locally produced brandy and then stored at temperatures of up to 140°F for three to six months. PORT From the Douro region of Portugal, port is made by adding brandy to wine that is still in the process of fermentation. This halts the process, retaining the sugar not yet used by the yeast and resulting in a sweet fortified wine. Vintage Port is port that the winemaker decides is good enough to call vintage. It must be bottled within two years and should then be aged in the bottle for between 8 and 20 years. These ports have specially treated corks that will not deteriorate quickly, since the bottles are laid down on their sides. Tawny Port is aged in casks and is repeatedly “fined,” that is, clarified by using substances such as egg whites to collect sediment that is suspended in the liquid. This process also takes some of the color out of the port; hence, the longer it is aged, the paler (or tawnier) and drier it becomes. Ruby Port is not aged for as long as the tawny. It re- tains much of its original color, fruitiness, and full body. White Port is made only from white grapes, but it is aged in wooden casks like the ruby and tawny ports and is a drier wine than its sisters. SHERRY The word sherry is simply an Anglicized version of Jerez, the town around which sherry is produced in the Cadiz region of Spain. Wine is produced from local grapes that are fermented and aged. The wine is then drawn off into casks that are not filled to ca- pacity. At this stage a yeast scum, known as flor, should appear on the sherry. The scum is produced by a local, airborne yeast that sometimes develops and sometimes doesn’t—it’s totally up to Mother Nature. The amount of flor that develops will in- dicate to the winemaker which type of sherry he should produce. At this point he can add the brandy that fortifies the sherry. Fino (pale, light, and dry) sherry is produced when the scum develops fully. Manzanilla (dry and crisp) sherry is a fino type that has been aged in the coastal town of Sanlucar de Barrameda. Amontillado (dry and nutty) sherry results when the flor develops only partially. Oloroso (dark, heavy-bodied, and usually sweetened for export) sherry is produced when the flor does not develop at all. Extra brandy is added if the flor doesn’t look like it will develop, ensuring a batch of oloroso. Amoroso sherry also known as cream or brown sherry (sweet), is an oloroso type with sweet wine added. STORAGE OF WINES Any white wine—still or sparkling—can be stored unopened in a refrigerator for up to a few months. When storing red wine or white wine for longer periods, however, certain standards should be fol- lowed: Wine should ideally be stored in a dark place at a temperature of no lower than 50° to 55°F. As a general rule the temperature in a wine- storage area should never exceed more than 70°F for wines that will be stored up to 5 years, 65°F if the wine is to be stored for up to 15 years, and 60°F for any period exceeding 15 years. Humidity in a wine storage area should be kept at around 50 percent in order to prevent cork deterioration and mustiness. Still and sparkling wines should be stored on their sides in order to keep the corks moist. This prevents air from entering the bottle and, in the case of sparkling wines, gas from escap- ing. Except for vintage port, which is specially corked, fortified wines should be kept upright since their high alcohol content can damage the cork. Once the bottle is opened... HOW TO SERVE WINE TEMPERATURES The first rule regarding wine temperature is that wine should be drunk at whatever temperature pleases you most. Having said that, I will now tell you the generally accepted norms of wine temper- atures. White wines should be chilled to between 40° and 50°F. Red wines and fortified wines should be served at room temperature, between 63° and 66°F. OPENING THE BOTTLE When selecting a corkscrew, use the type that makes you feel most comfortable. Once a bottle of fine wine is opened it should be drunk immediately. When using cheaper bottles or jug wine for mixed drinks, it is not unheard of to keep an opened bottle for up to a week in the refrigerator, although you should check it, like a good host, before serving. Here’s the proper way to open a corked bottle of wine: 1.	Removethefoilcoveringfromtheneckof the bottle by cutting it with a knife right be- low the bulge on the neck of the bottle. 2.	Wipe off the neck of the bottle to remove any mold that may have developed between the foil and the bottle. 3.	Remove the cork gently and smoothly. If you jerk the bottle you may disturb sedi- ment in the wine. 4.	After removing the cork wipe the neck again, both inside and out. For bar wines, especially jugs, you will often find that all you have to do is to unscrew the top. For sparkling wines: 1.	Untwistthewirelocatedontheneckofthe bottle and remove it along with the cage that it forms over the cork and the foil that covers the cage. 2.	Immediately cover the cork with your thumb to prevent it from flying out. 3.	Hold the bottle at a 45-degree angle away from your face and not pointing toward any guest. Serious accidents have occurred with flying corks. 4.	Twistthebottlewithonehandwhilehold- ing the cork with the other. The cork should pop out in your hand, not explode to the far reaches of the room. 5.	Keepthebottleatthe45-degreeanglefora few seconds to help prevent the wine from gushing out of the bottle. 6.	Wipe the neck of the bottle, inside and out. POURING WINE It could be argued that wine is best enjoyed glugged straight from the bottle while sitting on the ground outside Notre Dame with a loaf of bread and a hunk of good Gruyère. However, if you wish to follow some basic rules of wine etiquette, they are: 1. Wine should be sampled first by the host. If, after a few seconds, he is not writhing on the floor, the guests may be served. Ac- tually the custom of wine being tasted by the host first was originally to prove to his guests that he was not trying to poison them, a popular practice in the Middle Ages. These days, of course, the host takes a sip from his glass, which he should fill only about one-quarter full, to ensure that the wine is in good condition before serving his guests. 2.	The wine can then be poured, from the right side of the guest, to fill about one- third to one-half of the glass. When pour- ing, the glass should remain on the table. Do not pick it up to bring it to the bottle. 3.	The bottle should be twisted slightly after pouring each glass so that the drop of wine lingering on the rim of the bottle coats the rim instead of dropping into the lap of the guest as the bottle is removed. 4.	Chilled wines may be kept cold in a wine bucket filled with ice and water. Drape a napkin around the neck of the bottle so that it can be wiped free of dripping water when it is removed for pouring. 5. When pouring sparkling wines, first pour | enough wine into the glass so that the froth reaches the top, allow the froth to subside, and then fill the glass.
ADONIS COCKTAIL | 2 ounces dry sherry 1 dash orange bitters 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
ANDALUSIA | 2 ounces dry sherry 1⁄2 ounce brandy 1⁄2 ounce light rum | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BAMBOO | 2 ounces cream sherry 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 ounce sweet vermouth | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BELLINI | 2 ounces peach nectar 4 ounces chilled 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice sparkling wine or 1 teaspoon grenadine Champagne | Pour the peach nectar, lemon juice, and grenadine into a Champagne flute. Add the Champagne. Stir well.
BETSY ROSS 2 | 11⁄2 ounces port 2 teaspoons Cointreau or 1 ounce brandy triple sec | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Stir well. Strain into a cocktail glass.
BISHOP | 3 ounces red wine 1 teaspoon superfine 1 ounce lemon juice sugar 11⁄2 ounces orange juice 1 orange slice In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the red wine, lemon juice, orange juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the orange slice. BOSOM CARESSER | See Brandy, page 44.
BUCK’S FIZZ | 5 ounces Champagne or 1 ounce orange juice sparkling wine 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or 1 orange slice triple sec | Pour the Champagne, Cointreau, and orange juice into a Champagne flute. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink. Stir well. Garnish with the orange slice.
CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL | 1 teaspoon granulated 3 dashes bitters sugar 6 ounces Champagne | Put the sugar in the bottom of a Champagne flute and soak it with the bitters. Top with the Champagne.
CHAMPAGNE FIZZ | 11⁄2 ounces gin 3 ounces chilled 1 ounce lemon juice Champagne 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes combine the gin, lemon juice, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a Champagne flute. Add the Champagne.
CHAMPAGNE JULEP | 6 mint leaves 2 ounces bourbon 1 teaspoon superfine 4 ounces Champagne sugar | In a mixing glass, combine 4 of the mint leaves with the sugar and a few drops of water. Muddle well. Add the bourbon. Stir well. Strain into a collins glass. Add ice cubes and the Champagne. Garnish with the remaining mint leaves.
CLARET COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces claret (dry red wine) 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost | full. Add the claret. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and lemon slice.
CREAM SHERRY COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 21⁄2 ounces cream sherry  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost full. Add the sherry. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and lemon slice.
CREAM SHERRY FLIP | 21⁄2 ounces cream sherry 1 teaspoon light cream 1 whole egg 1/8 teaspoon grated 1 teaspoon superfine nutmeg sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the sherry, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
CREAM SHERRY SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 2 teaspoons water 2 ounces cream sherry Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces club soda 1⁄2 ounce Bénédictine 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and sherry. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the Bénédictine on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and a dusting of nutmeg and cinnamon.
FEROCIOUS FLIP | 11⁄2 ounces brandy 1 ounce ruby port 1 whole egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy, port, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
FRENCH REVOLUTION | 2 ounces brandy 3 ounces chilled 1⁄2 ounce framboise Champagne | In a mixing glass half-filled with ice cubes, combine the brandy and framboise. Stir well. Strain into a Champagne flute. Add the Champagne.
HILLARY WALLBANGER | 4 ounces dry white wine 2 ounces orange juice 1⁄2 ounce Galliano | In a collins class almost filled with ice cubes, combine the wine and orange juice. Stir well. Float the Galliano on top.
KING’S PEG | 1 ounce brandy 5 ounces Champagne | Pour the brandy and the Champagne into a Champagne flute.
KIR | 6 ounces dry white wine 1 lemon twist 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis | Pour the wine and cassis into a wine glass. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
KIR ROYALE | 6 ounces Champagne or 1⁄2 ounce crème de cassis sparkling wine 1 lemon twist | Pour the Champagne and cassis into a Champagne flute. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
LICENCED VICTUALER’S CHAMPAGNE COCKTAIL | 1 teaspoon granulated 1⁄2 ounce brandy sugar 6 ounces Champagne 3 dashes bitters | Put the sugar in the bottom of a Champagne flute and soak it with the bitters. Pour the brandy over the sugar. Top with the Champagne.
MADEIRA M’DEAR | 11⁄2 ounces Madeira 1 teaspoon sweet 1 ounce brandy vermouth 1⁄2 ounce dry vermouth 1 lemon twist | Pour the Madeira, brandy, dry vermouth, and sweet vermouth into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
MIMOSA | 5 ounces Champagne or 1 ounce orange juice sparkling wine 1 orange slice 1⁄2 ounce Cointreau or triple sec | Pour the Champagne, Cointreau, and orange juice into a Champagne flute. Stir well. Garnish with the orange slice.
NELSON’S BLOOD | 5 ounces Champagne or 1 ounce tawny port sparkling wine | Pour the Champagne and port into a Champagne flute. Stir well.
PORT AND BRANDY | 11⁄2 ounces port 1 ounce brandy | Pour the port and the brandy into a snifter. Stir well.
PORTUGUESE DAISY | 2 ounces ruby port 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine 1 ounce brandy 1 lemon wedge 1 ounce lemon juice 1⁄2 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the port, brandy, lemon juice, sugar, and grenadine. Shake well. Pour into an old-fashioned glass. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
PORT WINE FLIP | 21⁄2 ounces ruby port 1⁄2 ounce light cream 1 whole egg 1/8 teaspoon grated 1 teaspoon superfine nutmeg sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the port, egg, sugar, and cream. Shake well. Strain into a sour glass and garnish with the nutmeg.
PORT WINE SANGAREE | 1 teaspoon superfine 1⁄2 ounce brandy  sugar 2 teaspoons water 2 ounces tawny port Crushed ice 21⁄2 ounces club soda 1 lemon twist 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon | In a highball glass, dissolve the sugar in the water and port. Almost fill the glass with crushed ice and add the club soda. Float the brandy on top. Garnish with the lemon twist and a dusting of nutmeg and cinnamon.
QUEEN’S COUSIN | 1 ounce vodka 1⁄2 ounce Grand Marnier 1⁄2 ounce lime juice 2 dashes bitters 1 teaspoon Cointreau or triple sec 3 ounces sparkling white wine or Champagne | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients except for the wine. Shake well. Strain into a large wine glass. Add the wine and stir well.
RED WINE COOLER | 4 ounces red wine 2 ounces ginger ale 2 ounces lemon-lime 1 lemon twist soda 1 orange slice | Pour the wine, lemon-lime soda, and ginger ale into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist and the orange slice.
RUBY PORT COBBLER | 1 teaspoon superfine 21⁄2 ounces ruby port  sugar 3 ounces club soda Crushed ice 1 maraschino cherry 1 orange slice 1 lemon slice | In an old-fashioned glass, dissolve the sugar in the club soda. Add crushed ice until the glass is almost full. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry, orange slice, and lemon slice.
SPRITZER | 5 ounces white wine 1 lemon twist 2 ounces club soda | Pour the wine and soda into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
WHITE WINE COOLER | 4 ounces dry white wine 1 lemon twist 2 ounces lemon-lime soda 1 orange slice Pour the wine and the soda into a highball glass al- most filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist and the orange slice.  14  BEER AND BEER CONCOCTIONS Although drinks made with beer are not referred to as cocktails, there are some recipes in this chapter, such as the Black and Tan and the Snake Bite, that make for some very interesting drinking. The history of beer is anything but brief. The ancient Egyptians brewed beer 6,000 years ago; it has been brewed by every society on every continent since then, and—who knows?—probably before then. Beer is an alcoholic beverage that is available to people who have an abundance of grain but are without plentiful amounts of fruit for making wine. Beer is the ancest- or of whiskey, which, in very simple terms, is just distilled beer. It is very doubtful that brewing beer predates winemaking, but it can safely be said that beer has  been with us for as long as civilized man has been around. The practice of putting hops into beer for flavor was probably introduced by the Dutch in the fifteenth century. The addition of these leaves from the mulberry family served not only to flavor the beer, but also acted as a preservative. Beer was brought to the United States by the Pil- grims and was brewed by individual households. The first large commercial brewery was owned by William Penn, the founder of Pennsylvania. PRODUCTION 1.	Barleyismalted,thatis,germinatedtopro- duce an enzyme that can convert the rest of the starch into fermentable sugar. 2.	Themaltisroastedtostopthegermination process. Roasting takes place for different lengths of time depending on what type of beer is being brewed. The longer the malt is roasted, the darker the malt and, hence, the darker the beer. 3.	The roasted malt is then ground into grist and mixed with water and other cooked cereals in a mash tun, where the starches are converted into fermentable sugars. 4.	The mash is stirred within the mash tun, dissolving soluble material from the malt and cereals. The amount of time given to this stirring determines the amount of sol- ubles absorbed into the water and therefore governs the end product. 5.	The mash is transferred to a lauter tun, which has moving rakes that move it around, further breaking down the grist and cereal. When the rakes stop, the grist falls to the bottom, and the liquid, now called “wort,” sieves through it and through the slotted base of the tun. 6.	Hops are added to the wort in a brewing kettle. It is boiled and then strained to re- move the hops. 7.	The hot wort is cooled and put into a fer- menting vat where brewer’s yeast is added and the beer is allowed to ferment. Some brewer’s yeast ferments on the top of the wort and produces ale, while others fer- ment on the bottom and result in lager. 8.	Finallythebeeriscooledinstoragevatsin order to separate it from the yeast and other solids still present, and carbonated. LAGERS Lagers are differentiated by the types of yeasts used in making them and are aged for longer periods than ales. They are light in body and can be divided into several types: PILSNER The only true Pilsner is brewed in Pilsen, Czechoslovakia. It is flowery and dry. The word Pilsner on any beer not from Pilsen merely implies that the style of Pilsen beer has been copied. BOCK Dark, strong, and sweet, Bock beer can be, although rarely is, top fermented, when it becomes an ale. MALT LIQUOR A term applied to any malt beverage that is too high in alcohol content to be defined as a beer within the legal limits of any given state. ALES Generally described as having a full body and a heavy hop flavor, ale is top fermented and can be divided into several types: STOUT Dark, very malty, and rather bitter, stout has roasted barley added to it for color and flavor. PORTER Basically stout with a lower alcohol content, porter is known for having a rich coffeelike flavor. BITTER Also known as amber ale, it is flavored heavily with hops. Bitter ale derives its name from its bitter taste. BROWN ALE Sweet and dark in color. CREAM ALE A light-bodied ale, sometimes blended with a lager. SCOTCH ALE Dark and heavily flavored with malt, brewed in Scotland. PALE ALE Light-colored ale, often a bottled variety of bitter. MILD Lightly hopped, sweeter ale, dark in color. BARLEY WINE Usually sold in six-ounce bottles, this dark, strong, sweet ale is usually too high in alcohol to be desig- nated an ale, although it is top-fermented beer. SAKE | Although saké is usually known as a rice wine, it is in the literal sense a beer. Made from rice that is fermented twice, with a different yeast used each time, saké is a clear uncarbonated beer with a high alcohol content. It is traditionally served warm in small Japanese cups known as sakazuki.
ALE FLIP | 1 ounce lemon juice 1 tablespoon granulated  12 ounces ale 1⁄4 teaspoon ground ginger sugar 1 egg yolk 1 ounce brandy | In a saucepan over moderate heat, heat the lemon juice with 2 ounces of the ale, the ginger, and the sugar until the sugar is dissolved. In a bowl, beat the egg yolk into the brandy. Beat the lemon juice mixture into the egg yolk mixture and pour it into a beer mug. Add the rest of the ale and stir well.
BLACK AND TAN | 6 ounces ale 6 ounces stout | Carefully pour the ale into a Pilsner or beer mug, trying not to raise too much head. Pour the stout into the ale.
BLACK VELVET | 12 ounces stout 4 ounces chilled Champagne or sparkling wine | Pour the stout, then the Champagne into a large beer mug.
BLACK VELVETEEN | 12 ounces stout 4 ounces hard cider | Pour the stout, then the cider into a large beer mug.
DEPTH CHARGE | 11⁄2 ounces peppermint 12 ounces ale or lager schnapps | Pour the schnapps, then the ale into a Pilsner or beer mug.
DOG’S NOSE | 1 ounce gin 12 ounces ale | Pour the gin, then the ale into a Pilsner or beer mug.
GINGER BEER SHANDY | 4 ounces ginger beer 12 ounces chilled ale or lager | Pour the ginger beer into a Pilsner or beer mug. Carefully add the ale.
LAGER AND BLACK | 11⁄2 ounces Ribena 12 ounces chilled lager blackcurrant syrup | Pour the Ribena, then the lager into a Pilsner or beer mug.
LAGER AND LIME | 11⁄2 ounces Rose’s lime 12 ounces chilled lager juice | Pour the Rose’s lime juice, then the lager into a Pilsner or beer mug.
LEMON TOP | 12 ounces chilled ale or 2 ounces lemon-lime lager soda | Pour the ale into a Pilsner or beer mug. Top with the soda.
RED EYE | 3 ounces tomato juice 12 ounces ale or lager | Pour the tomato juice, then the ale into a Pilsner or beer mug.
SHANDY | 4 ounces lemon-lime 12 ounces chilled ale or soda lager | Pour the soda into a Pilsner or beer mug. Carefully add the ale.
SNAKE BITE | 6 ounces ale or lager 6 ounces hard cider | Pour the ale, then the cider into a Pilsner or beer mug.
STOUT AND BLACK | 11⁄2 ounces Ribena 12 ounces stout blackcurrant syrup | Pour the Ribena, then the stout into a Pilsner or beer mug.
STOUT SANGAREE | 2 teaspoons superfine 1/8 teaspoon grated  sugar 2 teaspoons water 12 ounces stout 1 ounce ruby port nutmeg 1/8 teaspoon ground cinnamon In a beer mug, dissolve the sugar in the water. Care- fully pour the stout to give a 1⁄2-inch head. Float the port. Garnish with the nutmeg and the cinnamon. 15  HOT DRINKS Irish Coffee, Hot Buttered Rum, Tom and Jerry: I think that these drinks stir a memory in most of us—a memory of a certain Christmas with the whole family present, sitting around a roaring log fire with a group of friends on a skiing trip, or maybe sneak- ing into a bar on an icy, windy afternoon to savor a hot drink before carrying on with the chores of the day. One of my favorite memories of the coastal town where I was raised is that of the cold and blustery days when the rain actually did come down in tor- rents, and the Irish Sea would cascade over the sea walls onto the promenade. On these days, I would don my warmest and most weatherproof clothes, slip a small flask of dark rum into my pocket, and go for a solitary stroll with the sea. After walking for about  20 minutes along the shore, I would make my way, drenched to the bone, to a small, seedy café on Nutter Road (that always seemed quite appropriate) and order a hot malted milk. I would slip the rum into my drink and wrap my hands around the mug, trying to get some feeling back into them, and let the vapors of hot rum and malted milk rise to my nose. In my fantasy I had braved the elements and survived, and this was my reward. | The secret to making good hot drinks is a simple one: Don’t skimp. Don’t use whipped cream on an Irish Coffee if you can lay your hands on some cold heavy cream to pour gently over the back of a teaspoon. When the drink is made, spend some time enjoying the aroma; savor the whole experience of the drink. It will warm the cockles of your heart.
BEDROOM FARCE | 1 ounce dark rum 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 2 teaspoons Galliano 2 ounces heavy cream, whipped 1⁄4 teaspoon grated 4 ounces hot chocolate bittersweet chocolate | Pour the rum, bourbon, Galliano, and hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Spoon the cream carefully so that it floats on top of the drink. Garnish with the grated chocolate.
BLACK STRIPE | 2 ounces dark rum 2 ounces boiling water 1 tablespoon molasses 1 lemon twist 1 teaspoon honey | Pour the run, molasses, honey, and hot water into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist.
BLUE BLAZER | 21⁄2 ounces Scotch 2 ounces boiling water 1 teaspoon granulated sugar 1 lemon twist  Heat the Scotch and pour it into a silver tankard. Pour the boiling water into another silver tankard. Carefully ignite the Scotch and, very carefully, pour it into the second tankard while it is still blazing. Pour the flaming drink very carefully back and forth between the tankards 4 or 5 times. Add the sugar and stir. Garnish with the lemon twist. BROWN BETTY | See Party Punches, page 328.
CALYPSO COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce dark rum 11⁄2 ounces Tia Maria 2 ounces heavy cream | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the Tia Maria and rum and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
CANDLE IN THE WINDOW | 2 ounces light rum 1 teaspoon cherry brandy 2 teaspoons bourbon 4 ounces hot coffee  1 teaspoon dark crème de 2 ounces heavy cream cacao | Pour the rum, bourbon, crème de cacao, cherry brandy, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
CARIBBEAN COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces dark rum 1 teaspoon granulated 2 ounces heavy cream sugar | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the sugar and stir to dissolve it. Add the rum and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
CHOCOLATE CORVETTE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces hot chocolate 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 2 ounces heavy cream cacao | Pour the rum, crème de cacao, and hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
CHOCOLATE VICE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao 4 ounces hot chocolate 2 ounces heavy cream, whipped | Pour the rum, bourbon, crème de cacao, and hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Spoon the cream carefully on top of the drink.
COFFEE ROYALE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces brandy 1 teaspoon granulated 2 ounces heavy cream sugar Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the sugar and stir to dissolve. Add the brandy and stir. | Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
COMFORTING COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 1 teaspoon dark crème de 1 ounce Southern cacao Comfort 2 ounces heavy cream 1 ounce bourbon | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the Southern Comfort, bourbon, and creme de cacao and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
DeROSIER’s 19th HOLE | 1 ounce añejo rum 2 teaspoons Drambuié 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 4 ounces hot coffee 2 teaspoons dark crème 2 ounces heavy cream de cacao Pour the rum, bourbon, crème de cacao, Drambuie, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream | carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
FIVE BEFORE FLYING | 1⁄2  ounce bourbon 2 teaspoons brandy 	1⁄2  ounce Southern 2 teaspoons white crème Comfort de cacao 	1⁄2  ounce crème de 4 ounces coffee bananes 2 ounces heavy cream Pour the bourbon, Southern Comfort, crème de ba- nanas, brandy, crème de cacao, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream carefully over the black of a teaspoon, so that it floats on top of the drink. GLÖGG | See Party Punches, page 331.
GOOD GOLLY | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 2 ounces heavy cream  2 teaspoons dark crème de cacao | Pour the rum, Galliano, crème de cacao, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
GRACIOUS ENJEE | 11⁄2 ounces bourbon 2 teaspoons dark crème 1⁄2 ounce Southern de cacao Comfort 4 ounces hot malted milk | Pour all of the ingredients into a coffee mug. Stir well.
HOT BUTTERED RUM | 1 teaspoon brown sugar 1 teaspoon unsalted  4 ounces boiling water 1 whole clove 2 ounces dark rum butter 1/8 teaspoon grated nutmeg | In an Irish coffee glass, combine the brown sugar with the boiling water. Stir until the sugar is dissolved. Add the clove and the rum. Float the butter on the top and dust with the nutmeg.
HOT DARING DYLAN | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 2 ounces heavy cream 1 ounce Kahlúa 4 ounces Mexican hot chocolate | Pour the tequila, Kahlúa, and hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
HOT MOLLIFIER | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce Tia Maria 2 ounces heavy cream Pour the rum, Tia Maria, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Pour the cram carefully over | the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
HOT PENNY RUM | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce bourbon 2 ounces heavy cream 2 teaspoons dark crème de cacao | Pour the rum, bourbon, crème de cacao, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
HOT PIPER | 2 ounces tequila 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de 2 teaspoons lemon juice cacao 4 ounces hot coffee Pour all of the ingredients into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. HOT WHISKEY PUNCH | See Party Punches, Page 332.
HOT ZULTRY ZOE | 11⁄2 ounces tequila 2 ounces heavy cream 1⁄2 ounce Galliano 4 ounces Mexican hot chocolate | Pour the tequila, Galliano, and hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
IRISH COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces Irish whiskey 1 teaspoon granulated 2 ounces heavy cream sugar | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the sugar and stir to dissolve it. Add the whiskey and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
ITALIAN COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce brandy 11⁄2 ounces amaretto 2 ounces heavy cream | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the amaretto and brandy and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
JACK ROBERTS’S TREAT | 4 ounces hot chocolate 2 ounces heavy cream 2 ounces brandy 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao | Pour the hot chocolate into an Irish coffee glass. Add the brandy and crème de cacao and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
MEXICAN COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces heavy cream 2 ounces Kahlúa | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the Kahlúa and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
MONASTERY COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces Bénédictine 1⁄2 teaspoon granulated 2 ounces heavy cream sugar | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the sugar and stir to dissolve. Add the Bénédictine and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
MONK’S ROPE COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces heavy cream 11⁄2 ounces Frangelico 1⁄2 ounce dark créme de cacao | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the Frangelico and crème de cacao and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
MORLEY’S DRIVER | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces hot coffee 1⁄2 ounce cherry brandy 2 ounces heavy cream 2 teaspoons dark crème de cacao Pour, the rum, cherry brandy, crème de cacao, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink. MULLED PORT | See Party Punches, page 333.
PRINCE CHARLES COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces heavy cream 2 ounces Drambuie | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the Drambuie and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
SQUIRE RACINE | 11⁄2 ounces dark rum 4 ounces hot malted milk 1⁄2 ounce Southern Comfort | Pour all of the ingredients into a coffee mug. Stir well.
RITCHIE RITCHIE | 11⁄2 ounces añejo rum 2 teaspoons dark crème de cacao 2 teaspoons white crème de cacao 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces heavy cream 1⁄4 teaspoons ground cinnamon Pour the rum, dark crème de cacao, white crème de cacao, and coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that | it floats on top of the drink. Dust with the cinnamon.
SOUTHFORK COFFEE | 4 ounces hot coffee 2 ounces heavy cream 11⁄2 ounces bourbon 1⁄2 ounce dark crème de cacao | Pour the coffee into an Irish coffee glass. Add the bourbon and Crème de cacao and stir. Pour the cream carefully over the back of a teaspoon so that it floats on top of the drink.
TOM AND JERRY | 1 whole egg, separated 6 ounces hot milk 1/8 teaspoon baking soda 1⁄2 ounce brandy 2 tablespoons superfine 1/8 teaspoon grated sugar nutmeg 2 ounces plus 1 teaspoon light rum | In a mixing bowl, whisk the egg white until it forms soft peaks. In another bowl, whisk the yolk until it becomes frothy. Fold the white into the yolk. Add the baking soda, sugar, and 1 teaspoon of the rum. Whisk it all together to form a stiff batter. Pour the batter into a warm beer mug and dissolve it in 1⁄4 cup of the hot milk. Add the rest of the rum and the brandy. Fill the mug with the rest of the milk, stir, and sprinkle the nutmeg on top.
WHISKEY-ALL-IN | 2 ounces blended 2 teaspoons lemon juice whisky 2 ounces boiling water 1 teaspoon superfine 1 lemon twist sugar 1 whole clove Combine the whiskey, sugar, lemon juice, and hot water in an Irish coffee glass. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon twist and the clove.  16  PARTY PUNCHES The recipes in this chapter are for classic punches—Glögg, Wassail, and Fish House Punch—that are made in quantity to serve large groups of people. Drinks like the popular Planter’s Punch, which is usually made individually, can be found in the appropriate liquor chapters (Rum for Plants Punch). There are two explanations for the origin of the word punch. One says that it is just an abbreviation of the word puncheon, which is a huge cask that holds about 70 gallons of liquid (although the amount varies depending on what part of the world you are in). The more likely explanation, however, is that it comes from the Hindu or Persian word panch, which means “five,” and denotes that at least five in- gredients are present.  The oldest-known punch is a rum punch made in Jamaica in the mid-seventeenth century that was simply rum, sugar, water, and orange juice. I know that there are only four ingredients there, but that’s the way history is. It offers sound and logical ex- planations one minute and tears them down the next. Maybe punch got its name from the way it hits you. Serving punch at a party puts less strain on the host or hostess. It can be made in advance and there is no need for a bartender to make lots of differ- ent drinks for everybody. If you are serving punch, however, make sure that you have some nonalco- holic drinks available for the folks who like to stay sober. | Punch should be served in a bowl with a large block of ice in it to keep it chilled; ice cubes water down the punch, since they dissolve quickly. The block of ice can be made simply by taking the metal dividers out of your ice tray, or just by freezing water in a well-cleaned milk or juice carton.
AMBASSADOR’S PUNCH | MAKES 8 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 1 quart chilled eggnog 3 ounces dark crème de 5 ounces brandy cacao 4 ounces dark rum 1 whole nutmeg | Whisk the eggnog, brandy, rum, and crème de cacao together in a large punch bowl. Add 1 large block of ice. Grate a little nutmeg onto the top of each drink when serving.
BOMBAY PUNCH | MAKES 50 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  1 cup lemon juice 1⁄2 cup lime juice 1 cup superfine sugar 1 liter brandy 1 liter sherry 1⁄2 cup Cointreau or triple sec 1⁄2 cup maraschino 1⁄4 cup cherry brandy 4 (750-ml) bottles chilled Champagne or sparkling wine 2 liters chilled club soda 3 oranges, cut into slices 24 maraschino cherries liqueur | Stir the lemon juice, lime juice, and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the brandy, sherry, Cointreau, maraschino liqueur, cherry brandy, Champagne, and club soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the orange slices and the cherries.
BROWN BETTY | MAKES 8 (10-OUNCE) BEER MUGS 1⁄2 cup brown sugar 21⁄4 cups water  1 lemon, sliced 4 whole cloves 1 cinnamon stick 1⁄2 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1⁄4 teaspoon ground ginger 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) brandy 4 (12-ounce) bottles amber ale, such as Bass ale In a large nonreactive saucepan set over medium- high heat, place the brown sugar, lemon slices, | cloves, cinnamon stick, nutmeg, ginger, and water. Stir frequently to dissolve the sugar. Let the mixture come to a boil, turn the heat down to medium, and simmer for 10 minutes. Add the brandy and ale and heat but do not boil. Serve in beer mugs, with a lemon slice in each drink.
CHAMPAGNE RUM PUNCH | MAKES 30 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 1 liter light rum 1 quart orange juice 1 liter añejo rum 1 cup cranberry juice 1 (750-ml) bottle sweet 2 oranges, cut into slices vermouth 1 (750-ml) bottle Champagne or sparkling wine | In a large punch bowl, combine the light rum, añejo rum, vermouth, Champagne, orange juice, and cranberry juice. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the orange slices.
CIDER PUNCH | MAKES 18 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 11⁄2 quarts hard cider 3 apples, cored and thinly 4 ounces Drambuie sliced 4 ounces dry sherry 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 2 ounces lemon juice 8 ounces (1 cup) club soda | In a large punch bowl, place the cider, Drambuie, sherry, lemon juice, and club soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice. Garnish with the apple slices and sprinkle the nutmeg on top.
CLARET PUNCH | MAKES 30 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  2 cups lemon juice 1 cup superfine sugar 3 (750-ml) bottles claret (dry red wine) 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) 4 ounces bourbon 8 ounces (1 cup) Cointreau or triple sec 1 quart club soda 2 cups cold tea brandy 3 oranges, cut into slices 4 ounces apricot brandy | Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the claret, brandy, apricot brandy, bourbon, Cointreau, club soda, and cold tea. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the orange slices.
CREOLE CHAMPAGNE PUNCH | MAKES 36 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 1 pineapple, peeled and 4 ounces Cointreau or  cored 2 cups lemon juice 1 cup superfine sugar 2 (750-ml) bottles Champagne 1 (750-ml) bottle dry white wine triple sec 2 ounces brandy 1 quart club soda 2 pints strawberries, hulled and quartered Take half of the peeled and cored pineapple and chop it finely. Thinly slice the other half. Stir the | lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the chopped pineapple, Champagne, white wine, Cointreau, brandy, and club soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the sliced pineapple and the strawberries.
EGGNOG | MAKES 6 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 4 eggs 1⁄4 cup superfine sugar 2 teaspoons vanilla 1 quart milk extract 1 whole nutmeg | In a large bowl, whisk together the eggs with the vanilla extract, sugar, and 1 cup of the milk until the sugar is dissolved and the mixture is well blended. Add the rest of the milk, whisking constantly. Grate some nutmeg onto each cup of eggnog as it is served.
FISH HOUSE PUNCH | MAKES 30 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  2 cups lemon juice 1 cup superfine sugar 2 liters dark rum 1 liter brandy 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) peach brandy 1 quart club soda | Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the rest of the ingredients. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice.
FRANK DAVIS PUNCH | MAKES 36 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  1 cup lemon juice 1⁄2 cup superfine sugar sauternes 1 liter chilled gold 1 large honeydew melon, tequila 2 (750-ml) bottles chilled cut into melon balls Champagne or sparkling wine 4 (750-ml) bottles chilled | Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the tequila, Champagne, and sauternes. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the melon balls.
GLÖGG | MAKES 8 (4-OUNCE) IRISH COFFEE CUPS 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) 1 cinnamon stick brandy 1⁄2 cup raisins 1 (375-ml) bottle dry red 1⁄2 cup blanched almonds wine 3⁄4 cup granulated sugar 8 whole cloves 2 teaspoons brown sugar 3 cardamon pods, crushed In a large nonreactive saucepan, place the brandy, wine, cloves, crushed cardamon pods, cinnamon stick, raisins, almonds, and granulated sugar. Set over medium-high heat and stir frequently to dis- solve the sugar. Just before the mixture boils, care- fully ignite it by touching a burning match to the surface. | * Sprinkle the brown sugar onto the flames. After 10 seconds, extinguish the flames by covering the pan with its lid. To serve, spoon some raisins and almonds out of the mixture into the Irish coffee cups before adding the Glögg.
HOT WHISKEY PUNCH | MAKES 8 (6-OUNCE) IRISH COFFEE GLASSES 4 lemons, peeled and cut 2 cinnamon sticks  into slices (reserve the peel) 1 cup granulated sugar 8 whole cloves 1 liter blended or Irish whiskey | In a large nonreactive saucepan, place the lemon peel, sugar, cinnamon sticks, cloves, and 3 cups of water. Set over medium-high heat and stir frequently to dissolve the sugar. Let the water come to a boil, turn the heat down to medium, and simmer for 10 minutes. Strain the mixture and return it to the pan. Add the whiskey and heat but do not boil. Serve in Irish coffee glasses with a slice of peeled lemon in each.
MULLED PORT | MAKES 6 (6-OUNCE) IRISH COFFEE GLASSES 2 oranges, peeled and cut 1⁄2 teaspoon ground  into slices (reserve allspice 1 cinnamon stick 1⁄4 cup granulated sugar the peel) 12 whole cloves 1⁄2 teaspoon ground mace 1 (750-ml) bottle ruby or 1⁄2 teaspoon grated tawny port nutmeg | In a large nonreactive saucepan, place the orange peel, cloves, mace, nutmeg, allspice, cinnamon stick, sugar, and 2 cups of water. Set over mediumhigh heat and stir frequently to dissolve the sugar. Let the water come to a boil, turn the heat down to medium, and simmer for 10 minutes. Strain the mixture and return it to the pan. Add the port and heat but do not boil. Serve in Irish coffee glasses with a slice of peeled orange in each.
ORCHARD PUNCH | MAKES 24 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 1 liter applejack 1 quart lemon-lime soda 2 cups orange juice 1 quart ginger ale 5 ounces grapefruit juice 1 orange, cut into slices 2 ounces grenadine 1 apple, cut into slices 1⁄2 ounce orange bitters | In a large punch bowl, combine the applejack, orange juice, grapefruit juice, grenadine, and orange bitters. Stir well. Add the lemon-lime soda and ginger ale and stir again. Add 1 large block of ice. Garnish with the orange and apple slices.
SUNSET PUNCH | MAKES 22 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 2 cups lemon juice 8 ounces Cointreau or 1 cup superfine sugar triple sec 2 (750-ml) bottles chilled 3 ounces cherry brandy Champagne or 3 ounces brandy sparkling wine 2 cups cold tea  6 ounces maraschino 2 oranges, cut into slices liqueur 24 maraschino cherries | Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the Champagne, maraschino liqueur, Cointreau, cherry brandy, brandy, and cold tea. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the orange slices and the cherries.
TARTAN CHAMPAGNE PUNCH | MAKES 25 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  4 ounces Drambuie 1⁄2 cup superfine sugar 4 ounces brandy 4 ounces maraschino liqueur 3 (750-ml) bottles chilled Champagne or sparkling wine 16 ounces (2 cups) club soda 3 oranges, peeled and sliced | Stir the Drambuie and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the brandy, maraschino liqueur, Champagne, and club soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the peeled orange slices.
TEXAS BAR PUNCH | MAKES 20 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 2 (750-ml) bottles ruby 1 liter lemon-lime soda port 1 lemon, sliced 1 liter ginger ale 1 orange, sliced | In a large punch bowl, place the port, ginger ale, and soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the lemon and orange slices.
VI’S JAMAICAN PUNCH | MAKES 35 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS 1 pineapple, peeled and 1 quart pineapple juice  cored 2 cups lemon juice 1⁄2 cup superfine sugar 11⁄2 quarts orange juice 1 teaspoon grated nutmeg 1 teaspoon ground 1 (750-ml) bottle light cinnamon rum 1⁄2 teaspoon ground mace 1 (750-ml) bottle añejo 1⁄2 teaspoon ground rum allspice 16 ounces (2 cups) dark 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) rum club soda | Take half of the peeled and cored pineapple and chop it finely. Thinly slice the other half. Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the chopped pineapple, light rum, añejo rum, dark rum, pineapple juice, orange juice, nutmeg, cinnamon, mace, allspice, and club soda. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the pineapple slices.
WEDDING BELL PUNCH | MAKES 32 (6-OUNCE) PUNCH CUPS  2 cups lemon juice 1 cup superfine sugar 16 ounces (2 cups) 2 liters dry red wine 8 ounces sweet vermouth 16 ounces (2 cups) club bourbon soda 12 ounces (11⁄2 cups) 16 ounces (2 cups) añejo rum ginger ale 4 ounces crème de cacao 2 oranges, cut into slices 1 split (187 ml) chilled 2 pints strawberries, Champagne hulled and quartered Stir the lemon juice and sugar together in a large punch bowl until the sugar is dissolved. Add the bourbon, rum, crème de cacao, Champagne, red wine, vermouth, club soda, and ginger ale. Stir well. Add 1 large block of ice and garnish with the orange slices and the strawberries. 17  NONALCOHOLIC DRINKS As mentioned in the introduction to this book, not drinking alcohol is much more common these days. The non-drinkers among us should be catered to. For the past few years more and more celebrities have come forth admitting their addiction to booze. Betty Ford was one of the first, and many other well- known figures have followed. These people have helped to take the stigma away from alcoholism, making it much easier for recovering alcoholics to function in a society that no longer thinks those who have drinking problems are merely weak willed or simply irresponsible. I dedicate this chapter to the brave folk in the public eye who have come forth and bared their souls, showing the general public that even the most upstanding citizen can fall prey to the disease of alcoholism.  I would also like to take time here to mention that if a person tells you that they don’t drink alcohol, then you should take some steps to make sure that you don’t serve them any by accident. One of the most common mistakes is to add bitters to a glass of tonic water or club soda along with a wedge of lime. While this makes a rather refreshing cocktail, bitters usually contain about 50 percent alcohol and should be avoided by the strict teetotaler. The trick is to read all labels; they will tell you how much al- cohol, if any, is contained in a product. Nonalcohol- ic beers and wines all contain a trace of alcohol, al- though, by law, it must be less than one-half of one percent. Check with your nondrinking guest before you serve it. On the lighter side now, this chapter contains dozens of nonalcoholic drinks, some old standards like the Shirley Temple, along with some lesser- known drinks, such as a Flying Fairbrother and a favorite Indian concoction called a Lassi. If you are throwing a party, plan to have something dif- ferent for your nondrinking friends to quaff. Try to | remember that, if they used to drink, they would probably prefer something not too sweet—say, homemade lemonade or store-bought ginger beer.
ATOMIC CAT | 4 ounces orange juice 4 ounces tonic water | Pour the orange juice and tonic water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well.
BANANA BRACER | 1 very ripe banana, cut 1 ounce coconut cream into chunks. 1⁄2 cup crushed ice 3 ounces milk 1 maraschino cherry 1 ounce pineapple juice | In a blender, combine the banana, milk, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass and garnish with the cherry.
BATMAN COCKTAIL | 6 ounces orange juice 1 orange slice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | Pour the juice and grenadine into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the orange slice.
BLASTER BATES | 1 very ripe banana 2 ounces chilled milk 1⁄4 cup blueberries 4 ounces chilled orange 1⁄4 cup raspberries juice | Place all of the ingredients into a blender. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
BROOKE SHIELDS | 4 ounces lemon-lime 1 teaspoon grenadine soda 1 orange slice 2 ounces ginger ale | Pour both sodas and the grenadine into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
CAESAR MAKES SENSE | 6 ounces orange juice 1 scoop vanilla ice cream 1 teaspoon grenadine 1 orange slice | In a blender, combine the orange juice, grenadine, and ice cream with 6 ice cubes. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass and garnish with the orange slice.
CARRY’S CARIBE | 6 ounces crushed 3 ounces pineapple juice pineapple 1 cup crushed ice 1 tablespoon honey 2 teaspoons coconut cream | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass.
COCONAPPLE | 4 ounces pineapple juice 1⁄2 cup crushed ice 1 ounce coconut cream | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
CRANBERRY COOLER | 4 ounces cranberry juice 1 lime wedge 2 ounces grape juice 2 ounces lemon-lime soda | Pour the cranberry juice, grape juice, and lemonlime soda into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
CRANBERRY LASSI | 2 ounces plain yogurt 2 teaspoons granulated 5 ounces cranberry juice sugar 1 ounce lemon juice | Place all of the ingredients into a blender and blend thoroughly. Pour into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes.
CROW’S NEST | 4 ounces orange juice 1 whole egg 1 ounce cranberry juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
ELEPHANT CHARGER | 2 ounces orange juice 2 ounces milk 1 ripe peach, peeled and sliced 1 very ripe banana, chopped 1⁄4 cup raspberries 2 scoops vanilla ice cream | In a blender, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
FLAMINGO | 4 ounces cranberry juice 2 ounces club soda 2 ounces pineapple juice 1 lime wedge  1⁄2 ounce lemon juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the cranberry juice, pineapple juice, and lemon juice. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass. Top with the club soda. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
FLYING FAIRBROTHER | 2 ounces grapefruit juice 1 teaspoon honey 1 ounce orange juice 3 ounces ginger ale 1 ounce cranberry juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the grapefruit juice, orange juice, cranberry juice, and honey. Shake well. Strain into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the ginger ale. Stir well.
GOLDEN NEST | 4 ounces orange juice 1 egg yolk 1 ounce cranberry juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
LASSI | 2 ounces plain yogurt 1⁄4 teaspoon roasted 6 ounces water cumin seeds 1/8 teaspoon salt | Place the yogurt, water, and salt into a blender and blend thoroughly. Pour into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the cumin seed and stir thoroughly.
LEMONADE | 2 teaspoons granulated 6 ounces water or club sugar soda 2 ounces lemon juice 1 lemon wedge | In a collins glass, dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice. Fill the glass with ice cubes and add the water or club soda. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
LIME TONIC | 1 ounce Rose’s lime juice 1 lime wedge 6 ounces tonic water | Pour Rose’s lime juice and tonic water into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well and garnish with the lime wedge.
LIMEADE | 2 teaspoons granulated 5 ounces water or club sugar soda 3 ounces lime juice 1 lime wedge | In a collins glass, dissolve the sugar in the lime juice. Fill the glass with ice cubes and add the water or club soda. Garnish with the lime wedge.
ORANGEADE | 1 teaspoon granulated 2 ounces club soda sugar 1 orange slice 1 ounce lemon juice 5 ounces fresh orange  juice | In a collins glass, dissolve the sugar in the lemon juice. Fill the glass with ice cubes and add the orange juice and the club soda. Stir well and garnish with the orange slice.
PEACHY HANES | 2 ounces peach nectar 6 ounces chilled ginger beer | Place the peach nectar in the bottom of a beer mug. Slowly stir in the ginger beer.
PENZANCE COCKTAIL | 2 ounces fresh orange 6 ounces ginger beer juice 1 lemon wedge | Pour the orange juice and ginger beer into a beer mug with a few ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
POMEGRANATE SODA | 1 ounce lemon juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 6 ounces club soda | Pour the lemon juice and club soda into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Drop the grenadine into the center of the drink.
PUSSYFOOT | 2 ounces orange juice 1 teaspoon grenadine 2 ounces lemon juice 1 egg yolk 1 ounce lime juice | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
ROSE AND THISTLE | 1 very ripe banana, sliced 6 ounces milk 1⁄2 cup ripe strawberries | In a blender with 6 ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Blend well. Pour into a collins glass.
ROY ROGERS | 4 ounces ginger ale 1 teaspoon grenadine 2 ounces lemon-lime 1 maraschino cherry soda 1 orange slice | Pour the ginger ale, lemon-lime soda, and grenadine into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
RUSSIAN DENIM | 3 ounces orange juice 1 egg yolk 1 ounce cranberry juice 2 ounces club soda 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the orange juice, cranberry juice, grenadine, and egg yolk. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Top with the club soda. Stir well.
SAFE SCRUMPY | 2 ounces lemon juice 6 ounces apple cider 1 whole egg 1 teaspoon superfine sugar | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the lemon juice, egg, and sugar. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass half-filled with ice cubes. Top with the cider. Stir well.
SHIRLEY TEMPLE | 4 ounces lemon-lime 1 teaspoon grenadine soda 1 maraschino cherry 2 ounces ginger ale 1 orange slice | Pour the lemon-lime soda, ginger ale, and grenadine into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Stir well. Garnish with the cherry and the orange slice.
SILVER NEST | 4 ounces orange juice 1 egg white 1 ounce cranberry juice 1⁄2 teaspoon grenadine | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine all of the ingredients. Shake well. Strain into an old-fashioned glass almost filled with ice cubes.
SWEET LASSI | 2 ounces plain yogurt 1⁄4 teaspoon orange flower 6 ounces water water 2 teaspoons granulated 2 drops rosewater sugar | Place all of the ingredients into a blender and blend thoroughly. Pour into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes.
TOMATO LASSI | 2 ounces plain yogurt 1/8 teaspoon salt 2 ounces tomato juice 1⁄4 teaspoon celery seed 4 ounces water | Place the yogurt, tomato juice, water, and salt into a blender and blend thoroughly. Pour into a collins glass almost filled with ice cubes. Add the celery seed and stir thoroughly.
VIRGIN BANANA COLADA | 1 very ripe banana, cut 1 cup crushed ice into chunks 1 maraschino cherry 6 ounces pineapple juice 1 pineapple wedge 11⁄2 ounces coconut cream | In a blender, combine the banana, pineapple juice, and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the cherry and the pineapple wedge.
VIRGIN BELLINI | 3 ounces peach nectar 4 ounces chilled club 1 teaspoon grenadine soda 1 ounce lemon juice | Pour the peach nectar, grenadine, and lemon juice into a Champagne flute. Add the club soda. Stir well.
VIRGIN BULLSHOT | 7 ounces beef bouillon 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 lemon wedge 1 dash Worcestershire sauce | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the bouillon, pepper, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
VIRGIN CLAMATO COCKTAIL | 5 ounces tomato juice 1 dash Tabasco sauce 3 ounces clam juice 1 lemon wedge 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 dash Worcestershire sauce | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tomato juice, clam juice, pepper, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the lemon wedge.
VIRGIN MARY | 7 ounces tomato juice 3 dashes Worcestershire 1⁄2 ounce lemon juice sauce 1/8 teaspoon black pepper 1 dash Tabasco sauce 1/8 teaspoon salt 1 celery rib 1/8 teaspoon celery seed 1 lime wedge | In a shaker half-filled with ice cubes, combine the tomato juice, lemon juice, pepper, salt, celery seed, Worcestershire, and Tabasco. Shake well. Strain into a highball glass almost filled with ice cubes. Garnish with the celery rib and the lime wedge.
VIRGIN PIÑA COLADA | 7 ounces pineapple juice 1 maraschino cherry 2 ounces coconut cream 1 pineapple wedge  1 cup crushed ice | In a blender, combine the pineapple juice and coconut cream with the crushed ice. Blend well at high speed. Pour into a collins glass. Garnish with the cherry and the pineapple wedge.
